By Agnes Igwe, Abakaliki A pro-Buhari group in Ebonyi State, Initiative for Demonstrating Change in Nigeria, has exonerated the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government from the rising cases of insecurity in the country. The group rather attributed the spate of insecurity to laziness and greed on the part of some Nigerians. National Coordinator of the group, Comrade Chinedu Ogah, who stated this in Abakaliki while interacting with journalists, blamed the youths for the ugly trend and advised them to avoid idleness and the get-rich-quick syndrome. Ogah urged the youth to imbibe attitude of hard work, sincerity of purpose, positive self-reliance and fear of God to guarantee great future for the nation. He said, “The aspect of insecurity in the country is not caused by the Presidency or the military as speculated, but by laziness and greed on the part of the youth. Almost all Nigerian youths now depend more on receiving money without the corresponding work before pleasure. No wonder, cases of kidnapping, political thuggery, yahoo plus, among other vices, are on the increase. “Nigerian youths should learn and strive to be hardworking and self-reliant at all times. Kidnapping is not a job, thuggery is not a job; the person using you has sent his children abroad to acquire high standard education. Don’t mortgage your future for peanuts, remember the future of this great country remains in your hands.” Ogah also condemned politics of vendetta, intimidation and harassment, which he said was being played in the country and urged actors to play by the rules. Without mincing words, he objected to the establishment of state police force, saying governors would surely abuse it by intimidating opposition parties through it because, “he who blows the flute dictates the tune.” He added, “We disagree with state police. Nigerians are not mature enough for state police. If you create state police, it would be hijacked by politicians and they must be loyal to any state government in power. If I am having an issue with you, you will use the state police to intimidate and harass me. “If you have a state police in a state that has opposition, even a councilor in the ruling party will use it to intimidate you. So, we are not mature for state police, because the type of politics we play in this nation is such that people are victimised, molested and intimidated.” Quote: Insecurity in the country is not caused by the Presidency or the military as speculated 