 The Osun State Polytechnic community in Iree was thrown into mourning on Friday after a Higher National Diploma I student, Aminu Sheu, slumped immediately after writing his second semester examination and died hours later at a hospital. Sheu, a student of the Department of Applied Chemistry was said to have been observing the ongoing Ramadan fast before he suddenly lost balance after submitting his paper to invigilators at the PLT examination hall. According to the polytechnic’s Public Relations Officer, Mr. Tope Abiola, Sheu was rushed to the school’s clinic at about 4:30pm, where medical personnel on duty made frantic efforts to resuscitate him, but to no avail. Abiola told our correspondent on the telephone that Sheu was immediately referred to another hospital in the polytechnic town in order to get more hands from other medical personnel. Unfortunately, Sheu gave up the ghost few minutes later at Ogo Oluwa hospital, where he was taken to, with the school’s ambulance. Abiola said that the deceased was observing the Ramadan fasting and that he might have slumped due to loss of strength. The PRO said Sheu has been buried on Friday evening in his hometown, Oba’agun. He therefore condoled the deceased’s family and prayed that God will comfort them. “It’s very shocking to us that the institution would lose such a precious soul. He slumped shortly after writing his examination in the hall and he was immediately rushed to the school’s clinic. ” Our medical personnel were on duty and they made efforts to resuscitate him. He was later taken to another hospital in the school’s ambulance, but we lost him in that hospital. He was a Muslim and he was observing the Ramadan fasting. He would have slumped due to loss of stamina. He was buried this (Friday) evening in his hometown, Oba’agun, community close to Iree.” “We sympathise with his family and we pray to God to console them,” Abiola said. Meanwhile, some students have blamed the school’s clinic for Sheu’s death. Some of them accused the medical personnel of negligence of duty alleging that some essential staff had closed for the day when Sheu was brought in around 4:30pm on Friday. But Abiola denied this, saying all the medical personnel were on ground and they gave their best to ensure that Sheu’s life was saved, but unfortunately, he died. 