 Ogun state governor, Dapo Abiodun, has expressed surprise that his revelation that he borrowed N7b to pay May salaries of workers had elicited unhealthy attention from residents of the state and the general public to the neglect of the developmental issues of his young administration. Abiodun also pointed out that he was palpably taken aback by the “spin” given to the essence of his meeting with the All Progressives Congress leaders and chieftains in the state on Monday by spinners, which led people to focus mainly on the N7bn loan secured from friends. The governor, who disclosed these on Wednesday evening in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, however added that his government has chosen to be forward-looking and not allow itself to be distracted. He explained that the meeting was called to harmonise the positions of the government with that of the party on how to move the state forward and ensure that the dividends of democracy percolate to the grassroots level. The statement read: “The Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun is surprised at the spin given to the essence of the Monday meeting of the leadership of the All Progressive Congress in Abeokuta. “Rather than focus on the developmental issues discussed, attention has been focused on the good gesture of the governor to secure loan to pay the May salaries of the workforce. “The government chooses to be forward-looking and not be distracted, and I would like to state that the meeting was called to harmonise the positions of the Government with that of the party on how to move the State forward and ensure that the dividends of democracy percolate to the grassroots level. “The common agenda is operationalization of the governor’s project of joint prosperity of all in the Gateway State and buy-in of the leadership of the party as critical stakeholders in the scheme of things is of essence. “At the meeting, Gov. Abiodun unfolded how he would build one primary health care centre in each of the 236 wards of the state, using local manpower. “He explained that he would rehabilitate 236 primary schools, one in each of every ward in the state, and set up a job portal for his administration to have accurate statistics of skilled and unskilled labour in the state. “He said he has emplaced a portal to register on a continuous basis unemployed youths in the State with a view to providing them jobs suitable for their trades and academic qualifications. “We shall be public-private sector oriented in our governance model, he said, adding that members of the APC should not be discouraged “that we are going to have an inclusive government that will utilise valuable potentials that abound in the State, irrespective of party affiliations. “All graduates and those with vocational training across the state will give their information and we will endeavour to match them with potential employers, not only within the civil service but also with the private sector, with whom we are partnering. “To ensure that the citizens and residents of the states are not short-changed we will send a local content bill for legislative action, such that investors will first look inward to availability of workers in Ogun State and make our youths their primary catchment area when they site their companies here. “In his determination to develop and address the glaring infrastructural deficit in Ogun state, rehabilitation of roads will be on the front burner in order for people to transport their goods and services unhindered by unmotorable roads. “We have enumerated the roads and mapped them, but we need your insight and buy-in on the roads most important roads to our people. So, help us list your first three roads in each local government and in the order of preference so that work can begin in earnest.” 