 By TIMOTHY AGBOR, Osogbo Four sons of a popular Islamic cleric in Ikirun, Ifelodun Local Government Area of Osun State, have allegedly beaten a resident of Oke-Iba area of the town, Azeez Adeleke to death.  25-year-old Azeez, a mechanic, was said to have attended a birthday party of the son of his colleague, Adebayo Wasiu, at the Igbole area of the town, before the four brothers descended on him and allegedly beat him up with charms.  The four brothers are Simiu Hassan, Jelili Hassan, Abiodun Hasan and Ridwan Hassan.  The deceased was reported to have challenged the four brothers for allegedly sitting on his motorcycle, after leaving the birthday party.  A relation of the deceased, who simply identified himself as Hakeem, said that the tragic event occurred on Sunday, June 23, 2019.  Hakeem explained “Azeez attended the birthday party organised by Wasiu for his child on Sunday.  He had a work at hand earlier which made him to attend the event late.  He got there around 5pm and left 7pm.  “He was leaving when he met four men on his bike. He politely told them to get off his bike. He was afterwards beaten by the guys and his clothes were torn into shred.  “He struggled to get on the bike and got down at a filling station along Ekoende, strangely asking people around the area to give him water.  “There was apprehension among the people that he had been hit by a powerful charm, as he gave up the ghost minutes later.”  Speaking further, Hakeem said members of the deceased’s family including the residents of the area have been thrown into mourning.  An eye witness, Mr Semiu Adeyemi, who resides at Oke-Iba, some metres away from the scene of the incident, recounted how the four brothers have been victimising the people of the area with impunity.  He alleged that the siblings have been unleashing terror on residents, just as he accused them of always threatening passersby with charms.  Adeyemi therefore called on the police authority and  human right organizations to come to their rescue  by ensuring that justice eventually prevail.  Efforts to speak with the suspects or any of their relations were not fruitful as they were said to have gone into hiding, since the incident happened.  Meanwhile, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Folashade Odoro, when contacted, said she was out of town and could not speak on the issue.   