Residents of Magodo Estate phase 2 in Ketu area of Lagos have decried the invasion of the community by some strange monkeys. The strange event, according to some residents, has caused panic in the estate. Some of the residents, who spoke with our correspondent, said the situation mostly affected the residents that live around Abayomi Owulade, George Udor Street and others. Findings by our correspondent revealed that the pesky monkeys that terrorise the area in most cases enter residents’ kitchen to consume food items and others. He added that efforts to apprehend the monkeys had not yielded fruit. One of the residents whose home was inaded by the monkeys, Mr Olaleke Mutiu, said, “The creatures are evil. I have never seen a situation where monkeys will leave the bush and come into peoples’ houses in a modern environment like this.  “I wonder how a monkey will enter your kitchen, open your pot and eat your food, drinks and fruits. This is not about a report given to me, it is what I experienced. “I was just glued to a spot when I saw it. My efforts to kill this creature were like a toddler chasing a chicken as it outsmarted me and escaped. And I started wondering about what I saw. I have been hearing it, but I don’t really believe it not until it happened to me.” Meanwhile, another resident, who simply identified herself as Fatimah, coroborated the incident. She said some residents of her street had embarked on hiring special security men who would help to curtail the monkeys from invading their residence. “People are now conscious of the monkeys in this estate. Though it sounded funny; when your house is invaded, you will know it is not a kid’s play. People will come back from work and notice that at least a monkey had entered the premises, destroying things. “Even with guards at home, these animals still penetrate. It is really worrisome. People in my area are now looking for special security outfits to help them keep these monkeys at bay. A security officer at Tokunbo Street, who didn’t want his name mentioned, said he was aware of the development but that none of them had sighted the creatures. He said the news about the monkey in the state sounded funny, though some people confirmed it. He, however, said he and others of his colleagues had been instructed to watch out for the creature, adding that they (monkeys) must be invading the estate from a forest close to the extreme end of the
estate. 