   To achieve economic prosperity and job creation in Imo State, Chairman of Blue Diamond Logistics and Shanghai Engineering Works, Mr. Festus Mbisiogu, has urged the state governor, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, to invest in projects that will touch lives, if he must sustain the good will of the people. To achieve this, Mbisioga advised Ihedioha to prioritise industrilisation in order to have the needed development required in the state. Mbisiogu, who made the appeal in Owerri, the state capital, said he was impressed by the emergence of the governor as he urged him to do all within his power to make Imo the economic hub of the South-east. Calling for a sustainable power supply in the state, the Blue Diamond Logistics boss enjoined Ihedioha to engage foreign investors on energy power supply, especially around the industrial zones in the state. “As a stakeholder in the Imo project, I consider it very imperative to welcome the governor to the helms of affairs, and as well, bring to his notice, our desire for the state. Imo has the potentials to become an economic hub. We have the industries, manpower and the resources to achieve that. What is required is a leadership with vision and rigour. There is no doubt that our amiable governor is an embodiment of these leadership qualities”, he said. Speaking further, he said: “The governor should create mini industrial parks in all the 27 local government areas in Imo. The industries should focus mainly on food, meat and fruit processing among others. With this, more jobs would be created and unemployment will be on the low.” Imploring the governor to see industrilisation of the state as an important task to accomplish, Mbisiogu said: “We implore him to put machinery in place that would address all the challenges that militate against industrialization and employment in our state by creating the enabling business environment to attract investors. Also, the governor should engage captain of Industries in Imo state on a around table discussion”. He appealed to the governor to provide security for investors, stressing that security of life and property was crucial to meaningful economic development. Away from industrialisation and security, Mbisiogu also urged Ihedioha to restore peace and harmony in the state, stressing that it would be difficult for business to thrive under a hostile environment. “We urge our governor to begin the task of reconciling people of different leanings in order to achieve the needed rebirth in Imo. As a committed indigene of the state, I pledge to support all initiatives aimed at taking our state to lofty heights. Every son and daughter of this state should support the governor to succeed in rebuilding Imo State. This is our collective task.’’ 