 At least three protesters were reportedly killed just as four others sustained injuries when soldiers allegedly opened fire on demonstrators in the farming border community of Gurin, Fufore Local Government of Adamawa State. An eye witness told our reporter that the Thursday morning demonstration followed incessant kidnapping for ransom that has ravaged the area in recent times coupled with the serious harassment residents pass through in the hands of soldiers and police. ‘’Tension has been building in the area for a longtime as we became fed up with the insecurity and uncalled harassment by security operatives. ‘’As I am talking to you now, there is serious demonstration going on in Gurin now due to rampant kidnapping and excessive use of force on us by soldiers and police,’’ Musa Mallum, a resident said. A local leader of the road transport workers union, NURTW, in the area, who pleaded anonymity, in a telephone interview said, “three persons who were returning back from their farms were shot dead and four others injured. ‘’We are preparing to take their corpses for burial rites. ‘’We want the government to intervene because security operatives have been harassing, torturing and extorting our people, instead of protecting lives and properties.” ‘’Motorcycles are an integral and indispensable part of our people being an agrarian community. “They recently upped their harassment following the reinforcement of total ban of motorcycles in the state as a result of which tensions between the people and security operatives escalated leading to the Thursday morning protest,” he said. The recent reinforcement of the total ban of motorcycles, which has been in place since 2014, was the lethal dose that trigger the latest tension in the area, as the transporter recalled that about two years ago, one retired DSP, Yerima Jika Hammawa, a prince of the town, died following the harassment he received in the hands of police when he was arrested for using a motorcycle. “When he died, the police allegedly threw his body away and pretended that he did not die in their hands,” the source said. Since the death of the prince, there has been escalating tension between security operatives and natives of the area. Some residents spoken to alleged that the security operatives were in the habit of extorting N2,000 on every motorcycle they impounded before its release, noting that those that cannot pay usually have their motorcycles confiscated. “The security operatives are not enforcing the ban, but rather using it to extort money. “Any motorcyclist that fails to settle the N2,000 levy usually has his motorcycle confiscated. Sometimes back, soldiers burnt down a number of confiscated motorcycles with the full knowledge and support of the traditional ruler of the area, Ardo Gurin,” said a local resident, who simply identified himself as Baba. ‘’Due to the suspicion of the traditional ruler’s support for the actions of the security operatives, during today’s protest demonstrators set bonfires at his palace,’’ he said. Police react When contacted, police spokesman in the state, DSP Suleiman Y. Nguroje confirmed the mille that ensued, as according to him, ‘’normalcy has been restored.’’ Nguroje said that, ‘’ Yes, some residents in Gurin border community were reported to have staged unauthorized protest for unknown reason to the palace of the traditional ruler, while they couldn’t meet him, some set bonfires on his palace. “They later proceeded to soldiers’ check point with their protest. We don’t know what happened there, but already, the CP has directed Yola Area commander and other neighboring DPOs in Fufore to proceed to Gurin to restore peace. ‘’ But I am not aware of any death or injury,’’ said Nguroje. Meanwhile, efforts to get the army spokesman in the state proved abortive as his lines were switch off. But in its reaction, Adamawa State government has called on the demonstrators to exercise caution, reiterating the ban on motorcycles. A statement by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information and Strategy Adamawa State, Polycarp Ayuba stated that government will lift the ban on motorcycles as soon as the security situation in the area improves. “It has come to the attention of the Adamawa State government that the inhabitants of Gurin town in Fufore LG are currently demonstrating against the government’s ban on the use of motorcycles. “The use of motorcycles was banned because it was a major of transportation used by kidnappers and other miscreants to easily carryout their inhuman and criminal activities. “Government never intended to inconvenience its law abiding citizens by the ban, but to safeguard their lives and properties, and to create a peaceful atmosphere for them to carry on their normal economic and social activities. “The demonstrators are therefore advise to disband immediately. “Government assured its citizens that it will lift the ban on the use of motorcycles as soon as the security situation improves. “However, the ban on the use of motorcycles still remains in force throughout the state. “Officers and men of 232 brigade Yola, have been drafted to the area for the purpose of maintaining law and order and peaceful atmosphere so that law abiding inhabitants can go on with their usual businesses, ” the statement said. 