 By Timothy Agbor, Osogbo The founding Bishop of Victory Life Ministries International, Bishop Mike Bamidele, has said that lack of values, integrity and honesty is responsible for the myriad of challenges confronting the nation. Bishop Bamidele made this known at the 2019 Pentecost Day celebration held at the Government Technical College school field in Osogbo, recently. The cleric said except values were changed, Nigeria might not overcome her security challenges. Bamidele, therefore, advised government at all levels to recognise change agents in churches, mosques and other places, where sound morals were taught and accord them their dues to enable them to reach out to everyone across the country. Addressing a multitude of Christians from different churches in Osun State, the bishop said Pentecost signified a new beginning and urged Christians to allow the Holy Spirit to operate in them in order to transform the country for good. He advised governments to create platforms whereby youths’ attitudes and orientation to life could be changed. He said most youths now commit suicide after suffering depression arising from their inability to make quick wealth. He noted that this was part of the rots in Nigeria which only value change could address. Bishop Bamidele, the convener of the annual Pentecost Day Celebration, also called on the government of Osun State to declare Pentecost Day a public holiday for Christians, since the government had declared public holidays on Hijrah for Muslims and Isese Day for traditional worshippers, respectively. He said, “The message for this year is about sounds from heaven; as the day of Pentecost signifies a new beginning so will anyone connecting with the the Holy Spirit have a new beginning in his life and for Osun State, we are awaiting a judgment from the Supreme Court, and we believe that the Holy Ghost, the Spirit of Justice will do justice to the case. “For our nation, the 9th National Assembly will start operating; we believe it will be a new dispensation, where there will be speed in accomplishment, there will be understanding, there will be rapid progress for our nation in the area of employment and in the area of establishment of industries, and especially the security situation in the land. The fire of the Holy Ghost is a secret for security. Where there is no integrity, there will be no security, because people are crooked. “Security is tied with integrity, honesty, decency of hearts. A new orientation that must be contacted through those who are teachers of God’s ways is needed in our country because our values and attitudes have corrupted us so that there is no measure of what anybody does that can actually bring security, except values are changed and the agents of value change are in the churches, the mosques and various spiritual organisations and didactic places, where they teach people with the authority of God. The cleric further said, “Unless our nation in our own peculiar circumstances, recognises them, give them their dues and allow them to reach the nation officially, I am not talking about unofficial religion, I am talking about giving access and creating platforms, whereby youths’ attitudes to life can change, whereby generation can begin to imbibe honesty, integrity, where people can begin to live a clean life, where Yahoo Yahoo, kidnapping, armed robbery are dealt with. Bring all the arms and ammunitions from anywhere, if value is not dealt with, you will only be killing the old ones and the new ones will be emerging. Our problem in this country is a value problem. “We don’t want to work hard, we don’t want to be honest. Look at every song by most outstanding artistes is talking about how to get rich quickly, how to have girls around you, build big houses and have big cars. These songs go into the minds of young ones and once they can’t get the money, they get depressed and start committing suicide.” 