 By Timothy Agbor, Osogbo A Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State, has remanded a suspected political thug, Tajudeen Rabiu, popularly known as Spanner, in Ilesa prison for allegedly threatening the life of a Magistrate in the state, Mrs. Habibat Basiru. Rabiu is being accused of conspiring with others, now at large, to visit Magistrate Basiru’s residence at Block 36, Plot 6, GRA, Osogbo, where they violently demanded the sum of N100,000 from the Magistrate, who is the wife of the Senator-elect for Osogbo Central Senatorial District, Dr. Ajibola Basiru. The accused person and his fleeing accomplices were said to have been armed with broken bottle while threatening the life of the Magistrate in her residence around 9:30am. Rabiu, aged 30, was arraigned by the police on Friday on a five count-charge bearing on felony, namely, house breaking, demanding money with menace, and threat to the life of the Magistrate, Mrs. Basiru. One of the counts in the charge read partly, “That you Tajudeen Rabiu, and others still at large, on 5th day of June 2019, at about 21:30hrs at Block 36, Plot 6, GRA, Osogbo in the Osogbo Magisterial District did willfully and forcefully enter into the dwelling place of Mrs. Habitat Bashiru with intent to commit offence.” The Police prosecutor, John Idoko, an Inspector, argued that Rabiu committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 516, 411, 406, 509, and 86 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II, Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002. But Rabiu pleaded not guilty to the charges slammed on him. The presiding Magistrate, Olusegun Ayilara, gave the accused person an opportunity to address the court on the matter, since he did not have any legal representation. Rabiu claimed that he had joined in campaigning for Mrs. Basiru’s husband, when he contested the senatorial seat. The suspect told the court that he had been visiting Basiru’s residence and had only visited the house on June 5 to ask for his own Ramadan package. Speaking in Yoruba language, Rabiu said, “I am not a stranger in SRJ’s house (senator-elect); this particular day that I was arrested, I only visited the residence to get my Ramadan money. My friend told me they shared money to them on the Eid day, but I was no there. So, I decided to visit the next day for my own money. “But when I got there, the security men at the gate allowed me to enter and as I was entering the sitting room, a man accosted me and accused me of constituting nuisance in the premises. I only had the bottle of wine I was with and it was not as if I threatened anybody there. I only sought for money to rejoice with them on the Ramadan festival. I campaigned for SRJ and I made sure I attended all his rallies. So, I am innocent of all these charges.” The prosecutor objected to Rabiu’s bail on the grounds that if released, those at large would not be apprehended and that he could still return to further threaten the magistrate’s life. Magistrate Ayilara, therefore, ordered Rabiu to be remanded in Ilesa prison custody. He adjourned the matter till June 14 for ruling on the accused’s bail application. 