  Lagos State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has condemned the utterances of its 2019 governorship candidate, Mr Jimi Agbaje, especially a statement he issued last Wednesday, where he casted aspersions on the party leadership in the state, especially the former Deputy National Chairman , Chief Olabode George. At a media conference in Lagos on Thursday, the state party chairman, Dr. Dominic Adegbola said the statement credited to Agbaje on Chief Olabode George was not only disrespectful, but unwarranted. He said it was unbecoming of Agbaje to insult the party leadership in Lagos, noting that he would be disciplined if the tradition continues. Adegbola said he was surprise to read in the media the disparaging comments by Agbaje’s Director of Media and Publicity, Mr Felix Oboagwina on the Lagos PDP leader. He added that Agbaje should be the least person to make ill comments about the PDP chieftain, noting that Agbaje was one of the biggest beneficiaries of George’s benevolent heart. “Bode George’s personally committed 150,000 dollars to Agbaje’s election in 2015. Adegbola maintained that the records are there that when Agbaje contested the 2015 election, Chief Olabode George worked very hard to ensure his emergence as the party flag bearer in the state. “Without Chief Bode George, Agbaje could not have emerged as the party flag bearer anyway. I am really surprise why he conducted himself in this way. He showed he is ungrateful and disrespectful. He has not shown himself as thoroughbred Yoruba man. “Again, we are not surprise because he went under after the 2015 election and his impact was never felt until he resurfaced to contest the 2019 election. He had always been an unwilling candidate in view of his conducts. “The Lagos PDP did not willingly give him the 2019 ticket, it was decided by forces outside Lagos and he acted true to type.” Also speaking with journalists, the Political Adviser to Chief Olabode George, Prince Uthman Shodipe – Dosunmu said the statement linked to George that Agbaje quit PDP, was a metaphoric response to a question put to the Chief George. “The Atona Odua response to the question was that each time election was over, nobody feels the impact of Agbaje in the party, he was present like someone who was not in the party. “So, the outburst of Agbaje on the party leader is unacceptable, disrespectful and dubious. The comment shows he veered off the mark and conducted himself without decorum. This is devoid of the traditional Omoluabi conduct in Yoruba culture.” 