 By Juliana Uche-Okobi Janet Mbagwu was upbeat when her baby girl turned three. Mbagwu, a nurse, had earnestly longed for the day when she would join the league of parents who had their children in school. That opportunity came in September 2017 when little Gracious clocked three years. Poised to give her child the best education, the nurse did investigation on some private schools in her area and settled for one, which, in her judgement, was the best. She enrolled little Gracious in the school, which she would not name for security reasons. However, before the end of the first term, Mbagwu regretted her choice of school for her child. Her daughter’s teacher could not speak English correctly, and it then dawned on her that she had made a wrong decision. “My baby’s teacher could not speak correct English. She could not differentiate between single verb and plural verb. I went to see my baby one afternoon, before closing time, and I heard her teacher say, ‘My daddy have a car.’ I ignored her, thinking it was just a slip of the tongue, but she kept repeating it,” Mbagwu said. Perhaps, the nurse could have left it at that, if the grammatical blunder had not persisted. But because such mistakes continued to reflect in the homework of little Gracious, Mbagwu had to have a change of mind. “I complained to the headmistress, who promised to do something, but I didn’t see any change. As such mistakes began to reflect in my daughter’s homework, I decided to withdraw her and enroll her in another school,” she said. Michael Adeleke, a civil servant, also had some difficult times getting a good private school for his children when he relocated to Lagos from Sagamu, Ogun State, in 2017. After visiting the first school, where he said the fees were exorbitant, Adeleke registered his twins, Taiwo and Kehinde, in a nearby private school in Iju-Ishaga, with more affordable fees, even though the classrooms were not as spacious as he would have liked them to be. Surprisingly, however, Adeleke discovered later that the school was an illegal, unregistered outfit. He said, “I was not happy that my children were in a school that was operating illegally and so during one of the parents’ meetings with the proprietor, we prevailed on him to register the school and he did a few months later.” But registration was not the only problem Adeleke had with the school. When he enrolled his children in the school, which occupied a three bedroom flat on the ground floor of a storey building, the proprietor had promised that he would relocate the school to a permanent site, following Adeleke’s complaints. The school, included primary and junior secondary sections. Because of how the rooms were divided, some classes are poorly illuminated, which Adeleke thought might affect the children’s eyes; the school also does not have a playground for recreational activities. “But two years after the proprietor’s promise, the school is yet to relocate,” Adeleke said. The experiences of both Mbagwu and Adeleke are only a few of the worries parents have concerning their children in private schools in Nigeria. In every nook and cranny of the country, the sight of private schools is common, especially nursery, primary and secondary schools. In Lagos State, for instance, there are about 17,000 private schools. Such a large number of private schools is also recorded in other states of the federation. However, not all the schools are duly registered with government and not all have the basic infrastructure needed to run a school. During a ministerial press conference in Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, in May 2018, a former deputy governor of the state, Dr. Idiat Oluranti Adebule, said that out of the 17,000 private schools in the state, only about 5,105 got approval from the state government, while the others operated illegally. The increasing number of private schools in Nigeria, including those that are described as “substandard,” has become a growing concern, posing a number of questions. What led to the boom and how has it been sustained over the years? Before now, public schools in Nigeria were properly run. Policies were in place to ensure quality education and many Nigerian students were given scholarships to study within and outside the country. In the Western Region of the country, for instance, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, the then premier of the western region, made education free in the region, making it possible for citizens to acquire good education at no cost. However, a lot has changed since then. A Lagos-based public secondary school teacher, Kayode Odumesi, who said he was a beneficiary of Awolowo’s free education programme, said some of those who equally benefited from that system were now owners of private schools. But he also noted that it was not the fault of such individuals. According to Odumesi, the rot in public schools, from primary to tertiary level, compelled individuals to look for better alternatives. Aware of the lacuna created by government’s failure, private individuals cashed in on the opportunity to fill the gap, which, unfortunately, seemed acceptable to different state governments. In Lagos State, it is on record that the 1,010 public primary schools and the 670 senior public secondary schools are grossly inadequate to cater to the education needs of the population. In such instance, the partnership between private individuals and government becomes imperative. Government even had to review and make less strenuous the process of registration to ensure that private operators have nothing to stop them. However, the concession given to private operators to run schools appears to have been abused by some. Because the registration of private schools does not dig any hole in the pocket of the operator, many people go into it even when they do not have what it takes to run such schools. However, there are some private schools owned and run by some reputable members of the society. This category of schools provide everything that is lacking in public/private schools, but their fees are so exorbitant that the lower class has no other choice but to settle for less sophisticated schools deemed affordable to them. This need has led to the springing up of many private schools of different shades and sizes. As experts in the education sector say, certain things should be in place for an outfit to be called a school. For instance, Odumesi told The Point that a classroom should be spacious, have doors and windows for cross ventilation and there should also be a playground for recreational activities. Schools should also be located in good environments conducive for learning. But as he noted, many average private schools across the country are deficient in many ways. Apart from being sited in odd places unfit for learning, he also said that some of them lack the basic amenities required to impart knowledge. In March 2018, the Director of the Federal Capital Territory Universal Basic Education, Dr. Adamu Jatau Noma, lamented that many private schools in the nation’s capital operated in motor garages and sitting rooms. But besides their unconducive locations, many of them also did not have qualified teachers, as some of their teachers were secondary school leavers, whereas, for an individual to qualify as a teacher, he should have a minimum of National Certificate on Education. To an extent, private schools are viewed by some individuals as money-making ventures. They could be placed in three categories: the highbrow, the middle class and the normal private schools, which some would term substandard. Although the substandard ones have next to nothing to offer their students, they lay more emphasis on money with their bloated bills at the expense of standards; which is why some stakeholders have called for the closure of substandard private schools. During the annual thanksgiving service of Toddlers Haven and Everest Heights Academy, Gwagwalada, Abuja, in January, the Director of the school, Dr. Bukola Dosumu, called for the closure of substandard schools in the FCT. The school director, who lamented that private education had become an all-comers’ job, said regulatory authorities such as Federal and state Ministries of Education as well as the Department of Quality Assurance, should brace for the challenges by ensuring that standards were strictly adhered to. In her opinion, the regulatory agencies had become weak and needed to be strengthened. Speaking in the same vein, a Lagos-based social activist, Oluchi Ikedi, also believes that regulatory bodies should take the blame for the shoddy nature of private schools across the country. Ikedi, who is also planning to set up a school, told The Point that, sometimes, some ministry officials sent to evaluate schools for standards work against the ministry after collecting kickbacks from the operators. In the present circumstance, one would have expected that the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools would be of help. But the outgoing General Secretary of NAPPS, Lagos State chapter, Bukola Akano, told our correspondent that it was not their duty to force members to comply with the guiding rules of operation. According to him, the organisation is more or less a trade union saddled with the responsibility of ensuring the welfare of its members. “Yes, we advise members to ensure that they meet up with the acceptable standards. But we are not a pressure group. It is the regulatory agencies that should ensure that members comply with the rules,” Akano said. Ikedi, too, believes so. She said that if the regulatory bodies should carry out their duties without fear or favour, the bad eggs among the operators would be flushed out and the result would be more quality education for Nigerian children. Meanwhile, Helen Okon, the proprietress of Joyland Private School in Ajuwon, Ogun State, has blamed the current economic hardship for the low standards prevalent in many private schools. Okon, who used to have two branches of her school in Lekki and Ajuwon, said she had to close down the Lekki unit following the recession that hit the country in 2015. But even the one she has in Ajuwon is standing on a shaky leg, as some of the parents, who are also affected by the economic downturn, find it difficult to pay their children’s school fees. Consequently, there is shortage in the inflow of cash, making it also hard for her to pay teachers, with the resultant effect that some of them resigned. But in the face of all this, Okon said her school still offered quality education to students as testified to by some parents. Meanwhile, she also believes that more quality education would be possible if the activities of private schools could be properly monitored. 