…offers them scholarships for masters’ degrees abroad By AFOLABI HAULAT President Muhammadu Buhari has honoured a university graduate, Miss Blessing Adewale, in appreciation of her patriotic service to the nation during the one-year compulsory National Youth Service Corp Scheme. President Buhari conferred an outstanding award on Adewale and also offered her a scholarship to proceed abroad for her master degree abroad. In a grand ceremony at the Aso Presidential Villa in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, Adewale was decorated along with outstanding corps members from other states. Speaking during the ceremony, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who represented President Buhari, eulogised the corps member, adding that her kind of patriotism was what the country needed to move forward. He also called on corps members currently serving in different parts of the country to emulate Adewale and strive to attain achievements similar to hers in order to make their mark on the sand of time. “We are proud of your achievement and we believe this is what other corps members should emulate to promote the country. The President is proud of you and we believe you will not relent in this spirit, even as you will serve the country in your endeavours,” Vice President Osinbajo said. Meanwhile, the Ekiti State Commissioner for Lands, Housing and Urban Development, Hon. Samuel Adewale, and the state’s Commissioner for Youth and Sport, Hon. Michael Awopetu, have expressed gratitude to President Buhari and Vice President Osinbajo for conferring the awards on the deserving corps member and others as well as their kind gesture of offering them scholarship for further studies abroad. Adewale, who is the father to the corps member, said the honour bestowed on the corps member will go a long way in encouraging serving NYSC members. The corps member, who spoke with our correspondent expressed gratitude to God and President Buhari. “I appreciate God for the opportunity, and I also to thank his Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo for recognizing me with the honour, among other members. Truly, the journey was rough, but I thank God it’s worth it,” she said. Speaking on the project that won her the award, Adewale said, “It all started with my propensity to impact people’s lives. This made me to think of the need to a provide water project that can serve three communities in Sha-Sha market, Il e Ife in Osun state. I also carried out a health scheme for the traders in the major market in the town, knowing full well that most of time they are too busy to go for their general body checkup. Going further, Adewale also thanked the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi, whom she said played a crucial role to ensure that the project was actualised. She said, “I will not forget to appreciate the role played by our Daddy in Ile Ife, the Ooni of Ife, who  stood by me to achieve the project. When all hopes seemed dashed in accomplishing the project, I was taken to him and he supported me a lot.  That is why I’ve dedicated this award to him and several people that supported me. “I also appreciate the traditional secretary to His Imperial Majesty; then, Mr. Idowu, my Local Government Inspector; Mr. Kazeem Aderibigbe; the Owa Eredunmi of Ile Ife; the former deputy governor of Osun State, Chief Sooko Adewoyin; and others who supported me during the project that brought me the honour.” 