An Ondo State High Court has affirmed the customary right of occupancy of the people of Ikaleland over 5O communities earlier claimed by the Araromi Obu community. The court’s decision brings an end to the long drawn legal battle between the people of Ikaleland under the leadership of the Abodi of Ikaleland, Oba G. B Faduyile and the people of Araromi Obu under the Ajobu of Araromi Obu, Oba Adeyemi Adelola. The Chief Judge of Ondo State, Justice O. O Akeredolu, held in his judgment on the matter that the Ikale people had the customary right of occupancy over all the lands occupied by the 5O communities. Justice Akeredolu held that the 6th defendant, who is the Abodi and paramount ruler of Ikaleland, Oba G. B Faduyile, and four others, had the history to back their claims that the territory occupied by the 5O communities in dispute belonged to them. The 5O communities are: Ago Alafia, Adewale (formerly Ajegunle), Ago Oyibo, Oloruntedo, Korede, Ayetoro 1&2, Mobolorunduro, Adesemoju and Ago-Idogun. Others are Omowole, Oke Ola, Lailo, Wakajaye, Agirifon, Libara, Sigidi, Ago igo, Oloruntedo(along ago libara), Lawebere, Oloruntedo (along Araromi paraga road), Abapanu, Ago Alafia( along Araromi Oniparaga road), Oloruntedo ( along Lagos – Benin road, Orisunbare, Odofara, Morije, Gbegude and others. The Ajobu of Araromi Obuland, Oba Aderemi Adelola, and five others, including the Odigbo Local Government Council, had dragged the Ikale community to court over the ownership of the lands occupied by the 5O communities. But delivering judgment on the matter with suit number HOR/2/2004 on May 13, 2019, the chief judge held that Oba Faduyile and the other four defendants “are entitled to Customary Right of Occupancy over the lands.” The state chief judge further held that the lands occupied by the 5O communities belonged to Oba Faduyile and Ikaleland, adding, “I hold that they are entitled to customary right of occupancy over the lands.” Justice Akeredolu also awarded N50,000 cost in favour of the counter-claimants against the claimants. Speaking after the delivery of the judgement, Chief Maiyegun ,the Chairman Ikale progressive Association, the group that initiated the defence, lauded the judgement as the affirmation of an age- long historical fact that the Ikales were the bonafide owners of the aforementioned territories. Maiyegun, who spoke in company with the group’s Secretary ,Evangelist Aiyejunukanwa, said the court judgement would no doubt pave way for the long-awaited Ufara Local Council Development Area(LCDA) with headquarters at Kajola, which he said would be in satisfaction of the yearning of Ikale people of Ondo State as being proposed by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu”s administration. Maiyegun, therefore, tendered his appreciation to the Abodi of Ikaleland, Oba G.B. Faduyile; Chief Omosebi, Oloja Onukun and Oloja Ode, and all the Olojas under the affected territory as well as all members of the Ikale Progressive Association and the judiciary for standing by the truth. He also commended the group’s lawyer, Otunba Olusegun Otayemi, for doing a perfect job. 