  By ADEJUWON OSUNNUYI Men of the Nigerian Police, Zone 2 , Onikan, Lagos, on Wednesday, arraigned a 40-year-old Lagos business man, Mr Ibrahim Arowolo, before a Federal High Court, Lagos, for allegedly committing an offence under the Cybercrimes Act. The accused, Ibrahim, was arraigned before the court presided over by Justice (Professor) Chuka Austin Obizor, on a three count-charge bordering on the offence. The police in alleged that the accused had on September 1, 2018 at about 09.32 am at Lagos, knowingly and intentionally posted on his internet Facebook wall page medium to the general public that have access to his Facebook, messages and pictures of one Felicia Ayeni, wherein he portrayed her as a suspect, prisoner, criminal, fraudulent person, thief, 419 among others. The police claimed that the accused knew the information he posted to be false as he did this for the purpose of causing the said Felicia annoyance, inconveniences, insult , injury, intimidation, hatred, ridicule among others. The offence, according to the prosecutor, Mr. Justine Enang, is contrary to and punishable under Section 24 (1) (a) and (b) of the Cybercrimes (Prohibition, Prevention, etc) Act , 2015. The accused however pleaded not guilty to the charge. Following the defendant’s not-guilty plea, the prosecutor, Mr. Ennang asked for a trial date and urged the court to remand the defendant in prison custody pending his trial. But counsel to the defendant, Mr K.S Lawal told the court that he had filed a motion for the defendant’s bail and that the prosecutor has been served. The prosecutor, while admitting being served with the motion, told the court that he was not opposing the motion for bail. After moving the bail application, justice Chuka Obiozor granted the accused bail in the sum of N1 million with one surety. The judge also ruled that the surety must be a landed property owner in Lagos State with evidence of same, produce evidence of payment of three years tax to the Lagos State government while all documents submitted must be verified by the court’s Deputy Registrar. Justice Obiozor further ruled that the surety must submit two recent passport photographs of himself to the court registrar while the defendant should remain in Ikoyi prison pending the perfection of his bail conditions. According to the three count charge, Ibrahim Arowolo was alleged to have on September 1, 2018 at about 0932 hours , at Lagos knowingly and intentionally posted on his internet Facebook wall page medium to the general public that have access to his Facebook, messages and pictures of one Felicia Ayeni wherein he portrays her as a suspect, prisoner, criminal, fraudulent person, thief 419 among others an information he Arowolo knew to be false, and did this for the purpose of causing her annoyance, inconveniences, insult , injury , intimidation, hatred, ridicule among others. The offence committed according to the charge filed by Me J I Ennang, is contrary to and punishable under Section 24 (1) (a) and (b) of the Cybercrimes (Prohibition, Prevention, etc) Act , 2015. The defendant was also alleged to have on the same date and place did conduct himself in a manner likely to cause breach of peace by posting the pictures of Felicia Ayeni on his Facebook internet medium, wherein he portrays her as a suspect, prisoner , criminal, fraudulent,419, thief among others, an information he knew to be false and which is capable of causing her anger and annoyance and breach of peace, thereby committing an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 249 (d)of the Criminal Code, Cap C38, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria.,2006. 