  By PRISCILLA DENNIS, MINNA. Niger state Governor, Alh. Abubakar Sani Bello has described organizations in the country that reject members of the National Youth Service Corps posted to them, as lacking understanding of their social and economic value. The state governor stated this at the formal opening of 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream 1 Orientation course and Swearing in ceremony of Corps deployed to the state. He said against this backdrop, government at all levels should sensitize organizations to understand their individual and collective economic contributions to the state and the nation at large. “Over time, people still do not understand the importance and the role of corps members. And that is why government at all levels needs to sensitize organizations to understand their individual and collective economic contributions. People need to understand the value they add to the state and the nation at large.” He explained that after accessing the damage caused by the attacks unleashed on some communities in Shiroro local government by armed bandits, his administration has mapped out vulnerable areas to ensure security is beefed up. Reiterating the commitment of the government to ensuring the security of lives and property of people of the state, Bello stated , “we have taken steps to ensure things are calm in Shiroro. The governor urged people to bring report of any suspicious moves around their communities or areas to relevant security agencies for swift action to prevent any further attack by bandits in the state. Earlier in her address , the NYSC Niger state Co-ordinator, Mrs. Funmilayo Ajayi said a total of 2,037 corps members have been fully documented that comprised of 1,086 females and 951 males. She explained that in a bid to actualize the dream of a befitting permanent orientation camp, the Niger government has approved the construction of a multipurpose hall of which, work has started. Ajayi urged the corps members to put into good use the skills they acquired at the camp to their benefit and to the society as a whole. 