 By SEGUN SOWUNMI  Nigerians, we need to ask who is killing our people? It needs to stop and stop forthwith! Brutes don’t devour their young, nor savages make war upon their own families! We are not the only country with issues in the world, neither are we the only geographical expression that has a European origin! Thinking seriously, is there any nation on earth that was not a creation of some accidental occurrence either of marauders, pillagers, in search of loot, or that of a group of barbarians who seize their fellow humans, and by brute force, subdue them into some monarchical arrangements, which go to the ridiculous level of hereditary rulership? Or is it the orientalist and their warring tribes, who, by foreign help, were able to weave together what we now see as great nations? I have often wondered: what really is wrong with our geographical contraption that we must, in an unexplainable manner, insist that self-destruction is what will bring us peace. We cannot blame our challenges on how our country was formed, save for the selfish desire of a few willing to push us off the cliff for no good reason. Our laws are not the weakest in the world; we just need to apply the laws and improve them as we go along. There is no reason to believe that without the right attitude, laws on there own mean much in the face of crass irresponsible applications of existing ones, neither are we the only ethnically diverse country. It beats me hollow why our diversity cannot be our strength and advantage when nature teaches us, with the rainbow, that light itself is made up of many colours blended into one. Our high consumption of religious beliefs is also a point of reference here, a nation where there are more places of worship than businesses, and where the successor generation of preachers stink with hypocrisy and great failings that you wonder how they can possibly hope to make heaven or wherever it is that people go to give account. We are not the only ones with competing trade and livelihood issues! We have to put a stop to the killings; these people that are dying are our siblings, our fellow Nigerians. Whatever it is that is wrong or not working is not working for them too. We cannot continue to pretend that this is right or that it does not concern us. It does.  Injury to one is injury to all. We are over-stretching the security personnel and resources of the country, which are most needed for other areas. Local authorities in our towns, villages and hamlets need to step up their vigilance and provide the Police and Security Agencies with intelligence that can get to the root of this. We must demand more from the personnel of the Department of State Services. What type of intelligence gathering are they doing? What is our national orientation agency up to? Precisely what are we doing with our Institute of Strategic Studies? We have to think ourselves out of this mess. We cannot be helpless in the face of so much human resources; we have to pull ourselves up by the bootstraps. Again, brutes don’t devour their young and certainly salvages don’t wage war against their families. Enough is Enough. Government must spare no expense to find those responsible and punish them even if it means reading the riot act to any of our neighbours who will not let us have peace. We owe it to our citizens. We must conduct a comprehensive security summit where all the right questions must be asked and practical actionable solutions provided and implemented. Rather than have the prefects called governors wasting the resources, we may just consider having a framework for state police, that they may get to work securing the lives of Nigerians as against the present situation where, truly speaking, they are wasteful and are engaging in high level corruption that, mostly, goes unpunished. Our border control needs to be stepped up; what justification can we have for non-Nigerians strolling in freely to kill and maim our citizens and those living within our borders? While we are at this, we might do ourselves a favour by commencing a massive campaign on national cohesion. Security of lives and properties must be top priority for everyone, especially Governors and Local Government Administrators. I have often wondered what role we could give traditional institutions in our country. We may do ourselves a world of good if we begin to charge them with looking for lasting peace between the people in their
domain. Our country must work for all Nigerians, no matter where they come from, as long as they are law abiding wherever they are. This new excessive recourse to ethnic cleavages is dangerous and we will do well to find the courage to stop it. Would we really be happier in smaller fiefdoms rather than in a peaceful and prosperous Nigeria that has the huge potential to be one of the greatest countries in the world? We must believe in our shared dream and we will see that it can be built. Unemployment is a huge problem and it may just be at the heart of the killings going on under all the fancy names we now dangerously call them! The idle hand is surely the devil’s workshop; young, impressionable citizens with little or nothing to hope for in life get into the initiation of criminal elements, either because of religion or some other yet to be identified considerations. We may find out that terrorism, kidnapping, ritual killings, and all such blood letting occupations, may envelop the country, and it is for all of us as citizens to gather the will power not to succumb to these elements, who desire to make evil triumph over good. We must refrain from seeing ourselves as enemies but collectively see and situate these criminal elements as nothing but criminals who must be jointly defeated. That is what great nations do and I believe we have greatness in us too. We just must muster the courage. In this regard, the present leadership of the country must shape up and get to work. Why would criminals even begin to think there will be no consequences for their crimes? Again, I ask: who is killing our people and what must we do to put a stop to it? Brutes don’t devour their young nor do savages make war on their
families. 