  By Francis Kadiri The Managing Director of Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation, Umaru Ibrahim, has appealed to the Senate to expedite the passage of the NDIC Act, 2006 as amended, currently before the National Assembly. The NDIC boss made the plea when the management of the corporation paid a courtesy call on the newly elected President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan, in his office on Wednesday. Responding, the Senate President promised that the Senate would immediately commence work on the Bill to amend the NDIC Act 2006 afresh as the work earlier done by the 8th Senate had lapsed with the expiration of that Assembly. He noted the importance of the Bill and assured the management of the corporation that the Senate would give the bill the accelerated consideration it deserved. The NDIC Managing Director then congratulated the Senate President on his election, along with the returning and first time senators on their victory at the polls. He pledged that the Corporation would work closely with the Senate leadership as well as the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions to ensure a stable banking system, which he said, is critical to the stability of the nation’s financial system. Ibrahim recalled that in the past, the Corporation had worked with the Senate on the Bill to Amend the NDIC Act 2006 through the holding of seminars, workshops and active participation in public hearings. He recalled the various challenges facing the economy and observed that only a stable banking system could guarantee the sustainable growth of the economy. Ibrahim added that the NDIC was working in partnership with the Central Bank of Nigeria and other relevant stakeholders through effective supervision and prudential regulation of the banking system. The NDIC boss enumerated the supervisory challenges facing the Banking System in the last few years including issues related to risk management, corporate governance, non-performing loans, and the need to for more efficient management cyber security systems as well as consumer protection. He noted that the Financial Services Regulation and Co-ordinating Committee comprising of CBN, NDIC, PENCOM SEC, NAICOM and CAC amongst others, would continue to collaborate to ensure financial system stability. According to the Director, Communication and Public Affairs Department, NDIC, Sunday Oluyemi, the Managing Director concluded his remarks by reiterating the commitment of the Corporation to the sustenance of excellent relationship with the Senate particularly the distinguished Senators who would be on the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions He added that the cordial working relationship was not only crucial to the passage of the amendment of the NDIC, but other important Bills such as the Financial Ombudsman, which was intended to provide a quasi-judicial framework for resolving disputes between banks and their customers. While thanking the NDIC Management for the visit, the Senate President noted the importance of the Corporation as an institution that ensured the safety and soundness of the banking system in Nigeria through the protection of depositors and acknowledged that it had done quite well in the discharge of its mandate over the years. He assured the NDIC that the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions, when constituted, would work closely and assiduously with Management to ensure the protection of citizens against adverse activities in the banking sector. 