Leicester City forward, Kelechi Iheanacho and Semi Ajayi have been axed from Nigeria’s squad for the Africa Cup of Nations after coach Gernot Rohr released his final 23-man list for the biennial showpiece in Egypt, on Sunday. The two players were unused substitutes on Saturday as Zimbabwe held the Super Eagles to a goalless draw at the Stephen Keshi Stadium. Nigeria are scheduled to travel to the Egyptian city of Ismailia later today where they will continue their preparations for the Afcon before playing Senegal in another friendly contest at the Ismailia Stadium on June 16.  The Super Eagles’ final squad list released by the Nigeria Football Federation has goalkeepers Francis Uzoho (Anorthosis Famagusta, Cyprus), Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Katsina United) and Daniel Akpeyi (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa) There are also defenders Olaoluwa Aina (Torino FC, Italy), Abdullahi Shehu (Bursaspor FC, Turkey), Chidozie Awaziem (Caykur Rizespor, Turkey) and William Ekong (Udinese FC, Italy). The rest defenders are Leon Balogun (Brighton and Hove Albion, England), Kenneth Omeruo (CD Leganes, Spain) and Jamilu Collins (SC Padeborn 07, Germany). Mikel John Obi (Middlesbrough FC, England), Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, England), Oghenekaro Etebo (Stoke City FC, England) and John Ogu (Hapoel Be’er Sheva, Israel) are the midfielders. The forwards include Ahmed Musa (Al Nassar FC, Saudi Arabia), Victor Osimhen (Royal Charleroi SC, Belgium), Moses Simon (Levante FC, Spain) and Henry Onyekuru (Galatasaray SK, Turkey). The others are Odion Ighalo (Shanghai Shenhua, China), Alexander Iwobi (Arsenal FC, England), Samuel Kalu (Girondins Bordeaux, France), Paul Onuachu (FC Midtjyland, Denmark) and Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal FC, Spain).  Why Iheanacho was axed  Facts have revealed that Iheanacho was dropped because he couldn’t convince Rohr that he was worthy of a place in the final list. Throughout the 2018/2019 season of the English Premier League, he failed to have a regular playing time for his club, Leicester City, as this might have affected his form. Ajayi, who was a standout performer for Rotherham United in the SkyBet Championship in England, could not displace more experienced players to make the team to Egypt. The three-times African champions will face the Teranga Lions of Senegal in their final friendly match on June 16. The 2019 AFCON, which is the 32nd edition of the competition, is scheduled to hold in Egypt from June 21 to July 19. 