By Emmanuel Samuel, Yola Nigeria’s First Lady, Mrs Aisha Buhari, has appealed to stakeholder to support government in addressing health challenges in the country. Mrs Buhari spoke recently during the inauguration of a maternity complex donated by the Aisha Buhari Foundation (ABF) at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Yola, the Adamawa State capital and distribution of empowerment materials to 2000 vulnerable women and youth in the state. Describing quality health services as positive drive to boost healthy living and guarantee economic development, Mrs Buhari said the 18- beddings ABF maternity complex would induce access for quality health care services to women and reduce maternal mortality challenges in the state. Mrs Buhari, who also inaugurated a school agricultural programme at Aliyu Mustapha College, her alma mater, urged the state government to replicate the green school initiative in all public schools across the state. Speaking on behalf of the visiting First Ladies at the event, the First Lady of Ghana, Mrs Rebecca Akovoa Ado, lauded the efforts of Mrs Buhari. Mrs Ado said it was unique for the First Lady to make a change in the lives of Nigerian women, youths and children. Rebecca called on the Federal Government to support the Aisha Future Assured Initiative with funds for the success of project. Governor Ahmadu Fintiri appealed to Mrs Buhari to intervene in making the convertion of Modibo Adama University of Technology to a conventional university a reality. Fintiri noted that the removal of management courses from the university has reduced students’ intake by 40 percent. Speaking earlier, the Director General of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), Dr. Nasir Mohammed Ladan, described the First Lady’s pet project as a youth developmental programme meant to improve economic growth and national security. Ladan said, “Youth development is central to economic growth and national security. In the same vein, to achieve sustainable growth, the talent, creativity and entrepreneurial vigour of our youths are highly required because entrepreneurship has been identified as a viable option and strategy to address poverty and unemployment.” He noted that no fewer than 1000 women and youths had benefitted from the empowerment package under the Micro-Enterprise and Enhancement Scheme (MEES) under the First Lady’s pet project. On the occasion, certificates, uniforms, cash and other empowerment materials were distributed to the beneficiaries. 