 The 7th Osun State House of Assembly was on Thursday inaugurated as the former majority leader of the house, Hon Timothy Owoeye, representing Ilesa East Constituency, emerged Speaker. Owoeye, who was believed to have enjoyed the backing of the immediate past Governor of the state, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, was elected unopposed. The ruling All Progressives Congress has majority members in the new assembly, having 23 members as against three for Peoples Democratic Party. The contest for who heads the Assembly was subject of intense horse trading within the APC as various interest blocks pushed for their candidates to emerge speaker. It was reliably gathered that cries and hues on who to become the speaker became the issue of the past on Wednesday, as the political gladiators within the party stormed Chief Bisi Akande’s house, where it was amicably settled. On the floor of the Assembly on Thursday, Hon Owoeye, a forth-term legislator, was nominated by Hon Tunde Olatunji of Ife North Constituency, who was named as one of the front runners for the position and Hon Elizabeth Abioye of Ifedayo Constituency. Other principal officers nominated and ratified included Hon. Femi Popoola (Boripe State Constituency) as Deputy Speaker, Hon. Babatunde Olatunji (Ife-North State Constituency) as Chief Whip, Hon. Morufu Olarewaju (Irewole State Constituency) as Majority Leader, Hon. Moshood Kunle Akande (Olorunda State Constituency) emerged the Deputy Majority Leader. Others include Hon. Gbenga Ogunkanmi (Ayedire State Constituency) as Deputy Chief Whip, Minority Leader from PDP goes to Hon. Babajide Kofoworola (Ede State Constituency), Hon Nasiru Olateju (Irepodun State Constituency) as Central Senatorial Whip, Hon. Babatunde Komolafe emerged East Senatorial Whip and Hon Babatunde Ibirogba as West Senatorial Whip. The inauguration witnessed dignitaries within Osun State, which included Governor Gboyega Oyetola and his wife, the Deputy Governor, Gboyega Alabi, former Deputy Governor Otunba Titilaoye Tomori, former Speakers of the state House of Assembly, Osun APC Chairman, Prince Gboyega Famodun, former and new Senators in the state, political groups among others. The new Speaker stressed on the fundamental principles of the Assembly and charged members to abide by the codes of conduct contained in the 5th schedule of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria . Owoeye promised that the 7th House of Assembly would remain loyal and supportive to the current administration of Governor Oyetola for the betterment of the State. While congratulating the new lawmakers, AOC Chairman in the state, Mr Gboyega Famodun, urged them to be hardworking in the discharge of their duties . Famodun charged the new 7th Assembly on good legislative standards. The state Governor, Mr Gboyega Oyetola said with the commencement of the 7th House of Assembly, the people of Osun should expect full fledge governance. Oyetola appreciated the people of Osun for supporting the party in the last governorship election. The governor asked the lawmakers to formulate equitable policies and programme that would set the state on the path of economic growth. He said that the state was resolute to focusing on primary healthcare , agriculture, education ,tourism among others for job creation and economic development. 