 The Coalition of United Political Parties on Friday faulted the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, for allegedly sacrificing competence by withdrawing the appointment of Dr Festus Adedayo as his Special Adviser on Media based on pressure from the chieftains of the present administration and ruling All Progressives Congress.  It said Lawan, by his action, has confirmed the fear of many Nigerians that the Senate under his leadership will be an annex of the executive arm of government.  The CUPP’s position was contained in a statement made available to journalists in Abuja by its national spokesman, Imo Ugochinyere.  Ugochinyere said it was surprising that the head of an arm of government could succumb to the pressure of another arm of government on the issue of appointment which is his prerogative.  While declaring the President of the Senate “Buhari’s boy,” he called on other senators to resist what he called Lawan’s plan to turn members of staff of the parliament to “Aso Rock servants and Halleluyah boys before it is too late.”  He said, “We note that immediately the appointment of this cerebral media practitioner was announced, Buhari government’s kitchen members, Buhari Presidency supporters, some social media warriors on the payroll of the ruling All Progressives Congress and the Presidency went into overdrive and started mounting pressure, faulting the well-deserved appointment.  “Their grouse was that the celebrated columnist had many times penned pieces that were critical of President Muhammadu Buhari who is the head of the executive arm of government and so cannot be allowed to work with the head of the parliament.  “It is surprising, to say the least, that the head of another arm of government (Senate President Ahmed Lawan) succumbed to the pressure from Aso Rock and that of the paid social media warriors and quickly withdrew Dr. Adedayo’s nomination just for not being a stooge of the executive arm of government.  “Opposition political parties view this development as primitive, show of intolerance and sacrifice of competence on the altar of Halleluyah politics.  “Senator Lawan has, by this singular act, proved Nigerians right that the Senate under his leadership will be an annex of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led executive arm of government.”  Ugochinyere warned that every action taken by individuals to either save or destroy the nation’s democracy will be recorded against such person for posterity sake. 