No fewer than 20 vehicles may have been recovered by the Gombe State Government from the aides of the immediate past governor of the state, Mr. Ibrahim Dankwambo. Also recovered from Dankwambo’s aides are 35 tricycles and other government property. However, the Gombe State Assets Recovery Committee has summoned the immediate past governor of the state, Dankwambo, and his aides to appear before it. The Chairman of the committee, retired Group Captain Peter Bilal, who spoke in Gombe, said that if the former governor and his aides failed to appear before the committee, the state would have no other alternative than to resort to legal actions to recover state-owned assets Dankwambo’s administration illegally disposed. Bilal alleged that the Dankwambo administration disposed of the government property without following due process in doing so. The newly elected Governor of the state, Inuwa Yahaya, had set up the committee shortly after his inauguration to recover state assets illegally sold off. But he committee chairman alleged that a lot of government property worth billions of naira were improperly disposed off during Dankwambo’s eight-year tenure. According to him, “We call on  Dankwambo, his former commissioner of finance and appointees, including his Aide De camp, Principal Permanent Secretary, and Chief of Staff to respond to the directive. “Also, the former security advisers is to appear before the committee and surrender government property in their possession with immediate effect.” Bilal also called on other citizens of the state still in possession of government property to return them as soon as possible. He alleged that all efforts to get Dankwambo and his aides to account for how the state government property  were disposed off and how some cash was withdrawn from government coffers at the twilight of his administration, had failed. Bilal noted that the “the committee has recovered some and some beneficiaries voluntarily surrendered theirs. “So far, the committee recovered some property, including lands, vehicles among other things.” 