…warn cigarette smokers of inherent dangers  By Angela Onwuzoo Citing its negative health impact, experts have warned Nigerians to desist from the  habit of  smoking or risk lung cancer. According to them, it had been scientifically proven that tobacco is harmful to human health, and contains more than 7,000 chemicals, of which 250 are proven to be harmful and more than 69 known to cause cancer. The health experts also said smokers were not the only ones at risk but also posed a great health risk to those who are often around them  when they smoke (second-hand smoke exposure). Tobacco, according to the World Health Organisation, kills up to half of its users. Regrettably, despite the overwhelming health risks  associated with tobacco consumption, report from the Federal Ministry of Health  on this  year’s World No Tobacco Day celebration  ,showed that many Nigerians have  ignored the risks  and still  engage in the habit of smoking. Disclosing the figure at an event in Abuja recently to mark the day, Acting Minister of Health and Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Health,  Abdullahi Mashi, said Nigerians consumed over 20 billion sticks of cigarettes annually, resulting in over 16,100  deaths every year. ”In Nigeria, findings from the 2012 Global Adult Tobacco Survey (GATS) show very high burden of tobacco use in the country with over 20 billion sticks of cigarettes consumed annually. The Nigerian GATS found 4.5 million (5.6%) adults to be current users of tobacco products”, he said. The theme of this year’s celebration, “Don’t Let Tobacco Take Your Breath Away ” was aimed at  increasing  awareness on the negative impact that tobacco has on people’s lung health, from cancer to chronic respiratory disease. The theme also looked at the fundamental role that the lungs play for the health and well-being of all people. World No Tobacco Day  is  celebrated  every year on May  31, by the WHO and global partners  to raise awareness on the harmful and deadly effects of tobacco use and second-hand smoke exposure, and to discourage the use of tobacco in any form. Tobacco, WHO says  is deadly in any form and threatens the lung health of everyone exposed to it, warning that it  kills one person every four seconds. Some pharmacists who spoke with The Point in an interview on this year’s theme, said Nigerians must be well-informed about  the dangers of tobacco consumption on their  health particularly on their vital body organs like  the heart, lungs and kidneys. President, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria,  Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, said tobacco is a leaf  that releases nicotine and therefore,  has the effect of stimulating the blood system. Ohuabunwa, a renowned pharmacist, said the use of tobacco as a result of its nicotine, has the effect of causing high blood pressure because it affects the blood vessels. “Nicotine, theophylline and caffeine are all related to cocaine. They have similar physiological responses.  But if that is all they did, then  we can manage them better. But  it has been proven that because of the smoke that they  produce,  they are  able to darken the lungs because the  smoke passes through the lungs. “Now rather than pick oxygen, the  smoke, which is carbonmonoxide and carbondioxide begins to dispel oxygen and the capacity of the lungs to metabolise oxygen is reduced. When this begins to  happen, the individual will begin  to have problem with breathing  because  he doesn’t have enough oxygen in his system. Instead, he has carbonmonoxide and carbondioxide  inhaled in his system”, he explained. The PSN boss told our correspondent that beyond affecting the lungs, tobacco also affects metabolism of the cells . “Tobacco  causes instigation of cancerous cells. Today, it has been proven that cigarettes smoking  causes  emphysema, bronchial pneumonia and  lung cancer. Its causation of cancer is the reason why  it is  being banned”,  he said. The tobacco epidemic is one of the biggest public health threats the world has ever faced, killing more than 8 million people a year. More than 7 million of those deaths are the result of direct tobacco use while around 1.2 million are the result of non-smokers being exposed to second-hand smoke, according to WHO. Ohuabunwa  further said: “Before tobacco had good use. It was used before to create internal heat  and was used to deal with cold for those who smoke. But today, we have found out that it is dangerous to health. That is why there is a general  consensus that life will be better, the lungs will perform better if people are free from emphysema, bronchial pneumonia and  lung cancer all caused by tobacco consumption . That is why we are supporting the World No Tobacco Day. Emphysema experts say occurs when cigarettes smoke or other air pollutants, such as dust or fumes, damage the walls between one’s  air sacs over time. A publication by Cancer Research UK showed a strong  link between smoking and cancer as  it is said to cause at  least 15 different types of cancer. According to the report on the research centre’s website, smoking  causes other cancers including mouth, pharynx (upper throat), nose and sinuses, larynx (voice box), oesophagus (food pipe), liver, pancreas, stomach, kidney, bowel, ovary, bladder, cervix, and some types of leukaemia. The report also showed that smoking causes other diseases too, such as heart disease and various lung diseases. A  Professor of Pharmacy, Faculty  of Pharmacy,  University of Lagos, Prof. Cecilia Igwilo, said tobacco smoking is dangerous to health, warning pregnant women to desist from it or risk giving birth to children with deformity. Igwilo said: “ Tobacco in pregnancy is very dangerous. Exposing a pregnant woman to tobacco fumes or smoke affects the foetus drastically. There must be a  control of tobacco use. It should not be used in public places. Its use can lead to poor development of vital organs of  a baby in the womb. Nigerians must  know the devastating effects that tobacco has on the body. Cancer of the lungs has  been implicated because of tobacco smoke.” Also speaking, Assistant Director,  Drug Demand Reduction Division,  Narcotic and Substance Directorate,  National Agency  for Food and Drug Administration and Control, Mrs Clara Anyanwu, said tobacco affects the central nervous system.  “Tobacco  affects the  way  you think, the way you behave and the way  you coordinate”, she noted. Anyanwu is particularly worried about the use of tobacco among  adolescents and youth. She stated: ” The major problem we are having  now is that  it is coming  in form of shisha and  our children are consuming it without know the damage is causing to their brains. Shisha is tobacco but with flavour. According to her,  the manufacturers are deceiving  children into taking this tobacco with sweet vanilla flavour. The pharmacist  revealed  that some of the tobacco products were also coming  in form of ice cream and coffee. “As  our children are sipping it, they are enjoying the flavour without knowing that something  dangerous is happening to their brain”, she said. Way Forward The stakeholders appealed to the Federal Government to urgently commence the implementation of the National Tobacco Control Act 2015. Ohuabunwa recommended that people should stop smoking because even those who do not directly smoke are affected by those who smoke around them. “We have found out that tobacco is dangerous to health. That is why there is a general  consensus that life will be better if it is banned”, he said. Prof. Igwilo called on the government  to enforce tobacco prohibition laws to protect Nigerians from exposure to second-hand smoke and ensure a clean and healthy environment that is tobacco free. On her part, Anyanwu said with the  increase of consumption of shisha among youth,  NAFDAC would be looking into banning such product causing a serious health
problem. 