 By PRISCILLA DENNIS, MINNA Residents of communities attacked by armed bandit last week in Shiroro Local Government area of Niger state have said they are not prepared to return to their villages until adequate security is provided for their safety by the state government. The victims told the state Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, during a visit to the Internally Displaced Persons camps in Erena, that they are afraid of going back home without government beefing up the security. One of the victims wounded during the attack unleashed on Kwaki community, Danjuma Tanko, told Governor Bello that there was no security when the incidence happened. He said; “Sir, we are not prepared to go back home. We are not ready to experience another attack of bandits. We will stay here until government increases security.” After listening to their plights, the Governor assured them of provision of adequate security in the affected villages as troops have already been deployed to the areas. He lamented at the marshy, rocky and unmotorable nature of most parts of the affected areas that made them inaccessible. Bello noted; “We would beef up security in the contiguous areas, unfortunately, access to these areas is almost impossible because it is mostly mashy and rocky. But, we have been able to send security personnel there so that the local people can go back to their various homes. “I have spoken to a few of them and I understand their fear, they are scared to go back home and I do not blame them. I do not blame them for being scared.” Bello confirmed that 37 persons lost their lives while 27 sustained gunshot wound and are receiving treatment. The Director of the Primary Healthcare Center in Shiroro who heads the IDP camp Clinic, MUSA Idris Aliyu told journalists that about 513 patients have been treated in the last one week. “There are adequate medical supplies for the treatment of the people and relief materials have been brought in for the people,” Aliyu stated. Also, the acting Director General of the Niger state Emergency Management Agency, Abdullahi Tanko Zumba said a total of 2004 persons are currently taking refuge in the IDP camp in Erena and 24 injured receiving treatment. 