 By ANGELA ONWUZOO To effectively check stigma and discrimination against persons living with albinism in Nigeria, Onome Akinlolu Majaro Foundation has called on the Federal Government to formulate policies and laws that will promote and protect their rights. Making the call in Lagos recently during an interactive session with newsmen on the just-concluded training workshop on Albinism Advocacy and Human Rights held in Senegal, OAM Foundation’s Director of Logistics, Mr Ugochukwu Orji, said if there were specific laws in place that addressed the issues of violation of rights of persons living with albinism, such laws would have compelled the society to treat them with respect. Orji said the workshop, which was organised by Open Society Initiative for West Africa with 35 participants from West and Central Africa in attendance, vehemently condemned stigma and discrimination against persons living with albinism while urging leaders of African countries where rights of albinos are still being violated to obey International Convention on Human Rights. The rights of children including those living with albinism are covered under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child which has been signed and ratified across Africa. Additionally, the 1999 African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child was created to provide additional rights to protection and outlines the rights that African countries must ensure for their child population. Orji appealed to the Federal Government to obey these international laws by domesticating them as well as their full implementation in order to guarantee the rights of persons living with albinism in the country. He also urged the incoming 9th National Assembly to revisit the Albinism Bill that the 8th assembly failed to pass into law, stressing that only a legislative action could decisively deal with cases of abuse against persons living with albinism as well as their perpetrators. “We at OAM Foundation are against discrimination and stigmatisation against persons living with albinism and we are appealing to the government to put an end to it. People living with albinism must be treated with respect. “The foundation is making efforts in addressing myths and misconception around albinism through awareness creation,he said. Giving insight into the workshop, Orji said: “Basically, the workshop exposed albinism advocacy organisations on the different ways and methods to use in pursing and addressing human rights issues and abuses that are peculiar to persons living with albinism. “How to engage the government, policy makers and if not satisfied, how to go to African Union to seek redress. We were exposed to the laws that guard against abuse of rights of persons living with albinism. Rights pertaining to children and women. For the foundation, the workshop exposed us to how to seek redress beyond the shores of Nigeria.” Commenting on the need for government to provide protection and social welfare schemes targeted at persons living with albinism, Co-founder of OAM Foundation, Mrs. Onome Akinlolu Majaro, urged the government to subsidise treatment for them in the area of skin and eye care. She appealed to those living with albinism in Nigeria to stand strong in midst of the misconception about their skin and be patient with people around them. “This is my message to them as we mark the 2019 International Albinism Awareness Day on June 13 with the theme:”Still Standing Strong.” So I want them to keep standing strong and persevere till they overcome every stigma and discrimination”, Onome said. 