 A customer relationship manager with the First Bank Plc Headquarters, Lagos, Kehinde Adewuyi, 36, has been remanded in prison over alleged stealing of N52.6 million from the bank. Adewuyi was sent to prison by an Igbosere Chief Magistrate’s Court, Lagos, after he was arraigned for allegedly fraudulent withdrawal of the sum of N52, 628, 000 from his employer’s account, which he later converted to his personal use. The accused was arrested by the police at the Lion Building Division, Lagos following a complaint by the management of First Bank Plc through the Head of the Forensic Auditors, Mr. Solomon Akhanolu and Owei Chris. Police alleged that the fraud was uncovered by the management of First Bank when they audited their account books and discovered that the accused had defrauded them to the tune of N52, 628, 000 and reported the matter to the DPO in-charge of Lion Building Division, who later deployed his team led by Inspector Chibuzor Okoro, to arrest the accused. The accused, a resident of Onyema close, Madira Estate, Gbagada, Lagos was charged before the Igbosere Magistrates Court on a three count of stealing. Police Counsel, Reuben Solomon told the court in charge No H/28/2019 that the accused committed the alleged crime with two others at large between February and March 2019 at First Bank Plc Headquarters, Lagos during working hours. Solomon informed the court that the accused forged the signatures of the relationship Manager, Mobolaji Sunmoni and the Group’s head, Ademola Adegbusi, to fraudulently withdraw the money from the account of his employers. He said the offences, the accused committed, were punishable under section 411, 365 (1) and 287 (7) of the Criminal Law of Lagos state, 2015. The accused, however pleaded not guilty to the alleged offence. Following the plea of the defendant, the presiding magistrate, Mr. M. A Davies granted him bail in the sum of N250, 000 with two sureties in like sum. Davies, while adjourning the matter till June 25, 2019 for mention, ordered that the defendant be remanded at the Ikoyi Prison, Lagos, till he is able to perfect the bail conditions. 