 By SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA. Wife of Ogun state Governor, Mrs Bamidele Abiodun has empowered no fewer than 1,000 widows across the state. The gesture was part of activities to mark the International Widows’ Day held at the June 12 Cultural Center, Kuto, Abeokuta, the state capital, with the theme” Renewed Hope for Widows” Mrs Abiodun, who gave financial support, domestic equipment and other items to the widows, said the event was part of her husband’s commitment to cater for the welfare of the people of the state. She therefore promised to give all it takes to ensure that widows are not left out of the welfare packages and dividend of democracy in the state. According to her, Governor Abiodun’s government is ready to involve them in matter of governance, saying that the utmost goal of the day was to develop resources and policy to empower all widows. Mrs Abiodun also expressed her intention to allow widows have access to education, work, health care and life free of violence and abuse. The wife of the governor said that she was committed towards empowering widows by providing them with tools and skills that would help them to create a life for themselves and their children, stating that she would constantly meet with representatives of widows across the state. In his remark, Governor Dapo Abiodun, however told the widows at the event that his administration was ready to alleviate poverty from the widows through the programme. Abiodun said that his government would enumerate the widows that would also benefit from the program, Oko Owo, promising that they would soon begin to enjoy the benefit of the programme. The governor said “We have a list of programmes that we have put in place and you will begin to see us execute them, and these are geared towards alleviating the pain and suffering of our women, in particular the widow.” “The first of such program is Oko Owo Dapo, please be patient with us, we will begin the enumeration of those who are qualified to benefit from the program and you will soon begin to feel the benefits.” he added. 