The Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Lagos, has appointed Dr. Azeez Ademola of the Department of Fine and Applied Arts as its new Provost. Ademola, who until his appointment was a chief lecturer, has been presented as the 12th Provost of the college to the staff of the institution by the Governing Council. The Chairman of the Governing Council, Hon. Iheanacho Obioma, who led other members of the council, appealed to the entire college to work harmoniously with the newly appointed provost, who is one of their own in the college. The governing council chairman said that Ademola’s appointment was done objectively and in agreement with the entre council, urging the entire college to work with the new provost. He said, “There were five from the school, who applied to become the provost, but we picked one person from the school, in agreement.  The remaining persons, too, were good but now that we have appointed one person, all ideas concerning the school should be through the new provost.  There should be no issue of criticism, see yourself as a family and position shouldn’t be a form of denomination. “I want to appeal to the entire college that this is the beginning of another era; whatever happened before has to go. Let us come with a new mind to give our best so that the new provost, the institution and the council, in particular, can succeed. Any opportunity you have to serve will come and go; the purpose of the opportunity to serve is to use it so that you can impact positively on the people and the environment. It is not for you.  Do not take position as a career. What happens before will no longer continue.” Obioma also assured the college staff of improved welfare. “We will continue to improve on your welfare, but please give us your quality time; we will screen the quality of jobs done by each staff. Opportunity will be given to others who can perform, if an incumbent is not performing well. No more recycling,” he said. In his inaugural speech as the Provost, Ademola promised the college continued improvement and assured that he would operate an open system during his tenure. The new provost also vowed to raise the standard of the college to that of a university while working diligently for its success. He said, “A new year has come. Yes, I am principled but I can assure you that the same principled man is concerned about the welfare of the people. I can assure you that all the sector of the college will be cared for, from primary school, to secondary school and to the college. Please, challenge me, bring in new ideas, I am ready to listen because I am a human rights fighter. “My vision is to position this institution, especially in the area of vocational technical education. As a college we were set up to produce skilled students in the area of middle level for the country and at the same time we also produce students in the area of teaching. “I am believing God that we will lead this college higher, especially in the area of technical  and vocational education, where we can train Nigerians, youths and young ones to be self-reliant after graduation. We hope that with the subvention from government and grants, we would be able to introduce more courses in the area of vocational education. We also hope to pursue that the college be elevated to a technical university.” 