 By Angela Onwuzoo The United Nations Children’s Fund, has condemned the use of children as human bombs and in any combat or non-combat roles in conflict in north-east Nigeria. UNICEF Representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins in a statement on Monday, said the act was totally unacceptable, warning that on no account should children be used in that way. “According to several reports, three children – two girls and a boy (ages unknown) – were used to detonate explosives that killed 30 people and injured 40 others at a community football viewing centre in Konduga, Borno today. UNICEF sends its condolences to all those who have been killed or injured in this horrific incident”, Hawkins said. He further said: “This incident brings the number of children who have been reported as having been used as human bombs to five, since January 2019. In 2018, 48 children – including 38 girls – were used in suicide attacks. “It is unacceptable that children should be used in this way.” Data from UNICEF show that since 2012, non-state armed groups in north-east Nigeria have recruited and used children as combatants and non-combatants, raped and forced girls to marry, and committed other grave violations against children. Some of the girls, the UN agency said became pregnant in captivity and gave birth without any medical care or attention. In the ongoing armed conflict in north-east Nigeria, more than 3,500 children were recruited and used by non-state armed groups between 2013 and 2017,according to UNICEF. Hawkins appealed to all those involved in the terrible conflict to protect children at all times and to keep them out of harm’s way. “We again call on all parties to the conflict in north-east Nigeria to immediately cease all attacks against civilians, to stop using children in this conflict, and to abide by their obligations under international humanitarian law”, he said. The UNICEF Representative assured that the UN agency would continue to work closely with state authorities and partners to support the reintegration of children who have been associated with the conflict back into their communities and reunite them with their families. 