The organising committee of the 2019 Africa Finance Award, has revealed winners in all categories at the 8th gala and awards dinner, in Lagos, as more Nigerian brands carted home prizes Winners of the 8th Africa Finance Award that witnessed entries from Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania, South Africa and Gambia include Fast Credit, PAC Capital Limited, La Casera, Medallon Communications, Linkpoint, Infinity Trust Mortgage Bank, PR Worx, Diffusion, and International Health Management Services Limited (IHMS). In his remark at the awards dinner, the chairman, award-organizing committee, Mr. Camil Chineme, thanked the members of the panel, who sacrificed everything to come up with the winners. “We wish to appreciate every member of the panel of judges for doing an excellent work in determining the winners for the 2019 awards.” Speaking on the mission for the reward system, Mr. Chineme said that the award is geared towards encouraging greater creativity and more importantly applauding effective marketing strategy and tools that deliver results. “We are all gathered here to appreciate the professional prowess of some of our distinguished brands and the uncommon professionalism, dynamism and courage of our business leaders,” he said. According to him, this year’s programme will witness the crowning of some brands and personalities, pillar of industries and outstanding achievements of finance companies across different sectors in Africa. Reacting to the award, the managing director of Fast Credit, Mr. Emeka Iloelunachi said Fast Credit has done exceedingly well, particularly, becoming the leading lender to the public civil servants in Nigeria. “We became the leading lender to the public civil servant in Nigeria, cut across all the federal, states, paramilitary and armed forces workers. We delved into all the private sector employees and SMEs. And besides lending to the public civil servants across the nation, we to be known as a leading financial technology company in the market, therefore, we started partnership with telecommunication such as 9mobile to drive the financial inclusion policy of Central Bank of Nigeria,” Iloelunachi said. Also reacting to his company’s achievements that resulted in the company winning the award, the managing director of La Casera Company, Mr. Chinedum Okereke stated that it is the feat he holds to over 550 employees of the company and of course, to its consumers, which is a prove of a lot of hard work that we put in the last 2 years. He said, “We are beginning to see that turn round the corner. So for us, it’s more like a testimony of a good work but it’s equally a wakeup call for us to actually do much more because when you attain the top position, it means you need to do work harder, because you will be competing against yourself.”  On PAC Capital honour, Mrs. Chioma Enwereji-Ogbonda, Brands & Corporate Communications Analyst state that rather than the company claiming award, the laurel should be dedicated to the client who gave them the opportunity to part of their existence. She said, “I would rather say to the life of business of our client rather than our business. We recalled that the award we have won today, which is the ‘Deal of The Year in Africa’ as to do with the acquisition of 9mobile by Teleology Nigeria. “You will agree with me that before now, 9mobile was like a troubled company with the faith of thousands of workers more less hanging on the balance and with that acquisition of course, we brought some respite of hope and then of course, to the business,” she said. 