 Mr. Dele Belgore (SAN) has narrated to a Federal High Court, Lagos, how parts of the sum of N450 million he allegedly received from the former Minister of Petroleum, Dr. Diezani Madueke, during 2015 General Election, was shared to the Police, Army, Department of State Security and others. Belgore, alongside Prof. Abubakar Sulaiman, a former Minister of National Planning, are standing trial before the court over N450 million fraud. The duo are being prosecuted by the Economic Financial Crimes Commission on a nine-count charge bordering on the alleged offences. They, had however, pleaded not guilty to the charges, and were granted bails. At the resumed trial of the defendants on Wednesday, Belgore, who was the Kwara State’s Coordinator of the People’s Democratic Party Campaign Organisation, while being cross-examined by the prosecutor, Rotimi Oyedepo, denied singlehandedly giving decision on how to share the N450 million. He also told the court that decision on how the money was to be shared was taken by all stakeholders in the Campaign organization at a meeting held in the house of another party chieftain named Sheriff Shagayi. However, Belgore admitted how the N450 million was shared upon being confronted with his statements which has been tendered and admitted as ‘Exhibit 5’. He also admitted that two persons were nominated from the three senatorial district in the state to receive their part of the money on behalf of their senatorial districts. Explaining how the money was shared, Belgore admitted that the sums of N87.963 million and N61.656 million were received by Mrs. Shola Adeoti and Isah Biu for Kwara South and Kwara North Senatorial districts respectively, while the sum of N102.298 million was allocated to Kwara Central Senatorial District. On how the money was shared to the security agencies, Belgore admitted that the sums of N10 million, N1 million, N2 million, N1 million and N1 million, were given to the state’s CP, resident AIG, DCP Operations, ACP operations and ACP administration respectively. He also admitted that the sums of N7 million, N10 million and N2.5 million were given to MOPOL O/C, 2i/c MOPOL Unit Commander and Director of DSS and men respectively. Belgore further admitted that the sums of N50 million and N20 million were given to the Military and other security agencies such as FRSC and men of Civil Defence Corps. He also admitted that the sums of N100 million was allocated for the party’s general expenses, such as interest on bank loan, while N80 million was allocated to the office of the Coordinator, which he admitted the disbursement was on his instruction. Belgore told the court that out of N80 million allocated to his office, N50 million was given to Sherrif Shagaya, whom he said was a candidate in the election and a stakeholder who had great interest to apply funds for various electoral purposes. When asked how the N30 million balance was disbursed by his Personal Assistant, Belgore told the court that he could not remember how the money was expended, except those who collected the money come and claim that they collected the money. Further hearing of the trial has been adjourned till July 2. In the nine count charge, the EFCC alleged that Mrs Allison-Madueke, (said to be at large) conspired with Messrs Belgore and Sulaiman on or about March 27, 2015, to directly take possession of the sum of N450 million, which they reasonably ought to have known forms part of proceeds of unlawful act. They were also alleged to have taken the said funds in cash, which exceeded the amount authorised by law, without going through the financial institutions. 