By Samuel Alonge The body of kingmakers in Ikeja community of Lagos, on Sunday urged the new Governor of the state, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to launch an inquest into what has caused the delay in installing a traditional ruler for the state capital, five years after the kingmakers had presented an Oba-elect. Addressing newsmen at Ikeja, a leading kingmaker in the community, Chief Maruf Balogun, said an Oba-elect in the person of Prince Samsondeen Adeleye had emerged since December 2014, but wondered why the state government had kept silent on the development. Welcoming Governor Sanwo-Olu on behalf of his colleagues, the kingmaker, who is the Eletu Idibo of Ikeja, said the community had implicit confidence in the ability of the new governor “to correct this anomaly.” Balogun said, “We welcome Your Excellency and pray for a fruitful tenure for you and your team, but we also appeal that you intervene in the delay in installing an Oba for Ikeja; whereas we, the kingmakers had taken a decision on the issue since about five years ago. “When the last Olu of Ikeja, Oba Rauf Matemi, Amore1, joined his ancestors in October 2014, we called for nomination from the next ruling house, which is the Oshoja ruling family. “Only Prince Samsondeen Adeleye indicated interest by writing us a letter. So, the kingmakers under the leadership of former Lagos State deputy governor, the late Chief Rafiu Jafojo, consulted the Ifa oracle, which approved of the candidate, and we did the necessary native rites before presenting his name to the Ikeja Local Government Council. “Ever since, we have not heard from the state government, which is in a position to approve the choice of the Oba-elect.” He said the delay in installing the Oba-elect had led to the politicisation of the Ikeja traditional institution, which he regretted had led to various disaffections among the natives, a situation he described as inimical to progress. Balogun, however, thanked the governor for appointing “an illustrious indigene of Ikeja, Mr. Tayo Ayinde, as your Chief of Staff”, noting, “We can assure that he will never let you down.” He also hailed the choice of Alhaji Hakeem Muri-Okunola as the Head of Service, describing the new appointee as “a tested hand, who holds the traditional institution in high esteem.” 