   The planned partial closure of a part of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway for reconstruction has been shifted to Monday, August 5. Information gathered on Thursday from the construction firm handling the section one of the road from Lagos to Sagamu Interchange, Julius Berger Nigeria, indicated that reconstruction work might not begin fully until Monday as against the August 3 notice earlier given. This, the source said, was to enable the Federal Government to conclude its sensitisation of leaders of the communities along the axis and other stakeholders to get their buy-in and ensure the smooth execution of the project. The Federal Road Safety Corps had hinted that the construction company had given notification of its plan to commence the reconstruction work on the Berger Bus Stop – Kara Cattle Market end of the road on August 3, and would close some sections for about four months. The Federal Controller of Works in Lagos State, Mr Adedamola Kuti, told The PUNCH on Thursday that work on the 1.4 kilometre portion of the road would include construction of drains and expansion of the road from two to three lanes on both sides. “There will be reconstruction and expansion, which means we will be scrapping off the old surface, digging down and expanding the road to three lanes,” he said. He stated that the reconstruction would however not affect the Kara Bridge, adding that there would only be some rehabilitation work on the road underneath to make it passable for motorists. He said, “A lot of people live around this particular section of the road, which is why we gave the notice; otherwise, it is not different from what we have done on other portions of the road. “We are starting with inbound Lagos, which will be closed with all traffic diverted to outbound Lagos, which will be divided into two for both inbound and outbound traffic.” The Ogun State Sector Commander of the FRSC, Mr Clement Oladele, said plans had been concluded to involve the military in case of security issues. According to him, security agencies will set up a camp around the affected area during the period of the closure to help with traffic control and other security issues that might arise. Oladele said, “We have commenced deployment of personnel; we know it will be tough during the period because of the nature of the road but we can cushion the challenges if people cooperate with us. We don’t envisage problems. Julius Berger will provide directional signs and flashlights to guide motorists and we have met with the military for security cover. “We have also negotiated with cattle sellers at the Kara Market to tell them not to sell along the road. All transactions should be carried out within the market during Sallah because that has always been a problem along that road.” He also confirmed that stakeholders’ engagement with communities along the area was ongoing. Oladele reiterated the need for motorists to use alternative routes such as the Epe/Ajah – Ijebu-Ode, Lagos – Ota – Itori – Abeokuta and Ikorodu – Sagamu roads during the period and avoid driving against traffic which could hinder free flow of traffic. Julius Berger had last year said the Sagamu-Lagos end of the project currently being reconstructed in batches would be completed by 2021. The project, which was initially to be completed in 2017, was stalled due to paucity of funds and recent review of the original construction plan. 