By EMMANUEL SAMUEL, YOLA The United Nation Children Education Fund, in conjunction with the European Union, have upgraded about 226 Primary Health Care Centers in Adamawa State. This was the declared by Dr Halima Abdu, of the Bauchi Field Office, during the official handover of upgraded Major Aminu PHC at Dubeli, in Yola South to the Facility Managers. He noted that the 226 centers are working 24 hours. According to Dr Halima Abdu, “UNICEF received support from the European Union in 2017 to support the state to implement health care services under the project titled strengthening primary health care and community resilience for improved Maternal, Newborn, Child Health and Nutrition outcomes project in three Northern States of Nigeria which includes Adamawa State”. She said the 54 million Euro Multi-Sectoral Health and Nutrition Project is being implemented across the three states of Adamawa, Bauchi and Kebbi as it has supported Adamawa State to ensure that the 226 Primary Health Care centers are functional 24 hours. It also provides integrated PHC services through capacity building for over 1,130 health workers on different PHC services and provision of equipment, motorcycles and essential medicines worth $1,856,643.65 distributed to the 226 PHCs and provision of a mobile storage unit worth $14,000, she said. Also speaking, the Executive Chairman of Adamawa State Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr. Batulu Muhammad commended UNICEF and EU for bringing positive development to health sector in Adamawa State. Represented by the Secretary of the agency, Abubakar Umar Maiha noted that UNICEF has contributed to health care delivery in the areas of capacity building to the primary health care workers, provision of equipment and renovation of 140 facilities out of which seven have been completed. She charged the communities, where these centers are located, to maintain the facility for optimal health care delivery in the area. Also commenting, Adamawa State coordinator of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Pastor Omega Nduakan thanked UNICEF and EU for the provision of structures, process and quality services upon which the delivery of health care delivery thrives. He urged the facility managers and the community to put it to good use for effective health care delivery in the area. A community leader, who spoke on behalf of the people, thanked UNICEF and other agencies for the support and assured that proper care would be taken to put the place in good shape.  