 …….. Says recalling is not a tea party The leadership of All Progressives Congress in Owan West Local Government of Edo state have denied the report of alleged recalling process of Hon. Mike Ohio Ezomo, the member elect who is among the 14 Edo state House of Assembly members-elect fighting the illegality of the midnight inauguration of the 7th Assembly. At an emergency meeting held at the party local government Area Secretarial, the APC leadership which include the 11 ward chairmen and the leaders of the local government pass a vote of confidence on the member elect, saying that, no amount of intimidation, harassment Will coerced Hon Mike Ohio Ezomo to bow to the illegal Assembly. Speaking on behalf of the leaders, the Chairman of chairmen in the local government and also the ward 11 chairman, Hon Epkenga Lewis and Alufohai James said it is only Hon Mike Ezomo that has won convincingly in the two elections he has contested for, winning the 11 wards overwhelmingly. They said that those illegally fabricated the story of recalling of Hon. Mike Ezomo are faceless in the locality, adding that recalling process is not a tea party. They however said that the Governor Godwin Obaseki to bring down his ego and honoured the directives of the National Working Committee of the ruling party, APC and that both chambers of the National Assembly by issuing a fresh proclamation letter for the inauguration of the Edo state 7th Assembly. “We can not be part of any illegality as witnessed by the midnight inauguration of done by the state government, where a member was seem taking oath of office in short. That only is enough embarrassment to discredit that inauguration. ” As leaders who stand for true, fairness and true democracy in our Edo state and Nigeria, we can not pretend but to back our member elect not to part of such midnight cult initiation by the state Government. ” Hon. Ekpenga Lewis therefore urged the people of Owan West local government to always stand by the trued and their elected member, Hon. Mike Ezomo in the face of lies and humiliation that the true will always prevail adding that justice will surely come some days. 