 SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA Ogun State government has said that it is working towards repositioning the civil and public service for efficient service delivery to the citizenry of the state. The State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun made the disclosure during the inauguration of the Committee on the Review of Appointment and Promotions in the State Civil Service and Enterprises between February 1 and May 29, 2019, at the his office at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. Abiodun said that the information he received about the appointments of some people into the state civil service was unsatisfactory, hence the need for the inauguration of the committee to review their appointments and promotions in the public service. According to the governor, the state civil service is known for its professionalism, commitment and dedication with the right leadership style to enhance its performance to the people of the state, saying that his administration was determined to create solid base manpower made of qualified people in the civil service. He said, “Ogun State public service is renowned for it’s professionalism, commitment and dedication and it occupies an environment let position in the comity of State in the nation. “This is the State of Simeon Adebo and A. k Degun. The State has produced giants, who laid the foundation of public service in Nigeria,” he added. Abiodun maintained that the committee is to review and all appointment s and employment into the public service, MDAs and other related matters between February 1 and May 29, 2019. According to him, the committee is to ascertain whether there are establishment vacancies for all posts and grade levels, and to review and establish the procedures for appointment in line with Public Service Regulations and Extant Rules. The governor however said that the committee would make recommendations to forestall recurrence of such appointments, stressing that it had four weeks to submit its report, as he called on the people of the state give the members of the committee adequate cooperation. The Chairman of the Committee, who was also the former Head of Service in the state, Mr. Dipo Odulate, lauded the governor for being meticulous on the issue, hinting that the committee would be fair in discharging the duties it was created for. Other members of the committee included, Elder Sola Adeyemi, Alhaji Kehinde Ogunfow odu, Chief Jide Oyeti, Alhaji Ambali Isola, Mrs. Moyosore Olowonmi, Mrs. Stanley Olufunmilayo, while Mr. Nurudeen Oyedele, would serve as the Secretary. 