 By PRISCILLA DENNIS, MINNA Three persons have lost their lives and over 500 others displaced in an early hour heavy rainfall in Bosso and Chanchaga Local Government Areas of Niger State. The heavy rain, which started at 4am on Saturday, submerged over 20 houses, including shops and farms while the were residents still asleep. Niger State Acting Governor, Muhammad Ahmed Ketso who visited victims to sympathy with them said the government has directed the State Emergency Management Agency to immediately take inventory of losses and provide relief materials made up of food and non-food items to reduce hardship faced by the people. Ketso called on the Federal Government and relevant bodies to come to the aid of the state in tackling the constant disaster caused by flood annually. Some residents who spoke to newsmen noted that the flooding was due to the downpour and was the cause of the collapse of the MYPA bridge in Bosso as well as washing away the Mola bridge in Dutsen Kura Hausa. Zubairu Abdullahi, one of the victims said all his animals and fish pond have been wiped away and his entire house destroyed by the flood. Speaking on behalf of the Dutsen Kura Hausa victims, Sanusi Mohammed, a businessman stated that three persons have been carried away and have not been found. Also, the Ward Head (Mai Angwan), Inuwa Bawa Tokura frowned at the stste Government’s nonchalant attitude in looking into the incessant flooding that has affected the areas. He explained that the only solution in tackling the situation is the construct a drainage system from the Federal University of Technology, FUT, Minna to Minna-Bida road. A mother of three, Hadiza Rabiu, a mother of three of Shanu village in Bosso LGA stated that she has lost her house, the sum of N40,000, food stuffs and personal effects to the flood, while calling on government to come to their aid. Speaking, also, the Head of Shanu village, Ibrahim Musa noted that he was happy and thanking God for the rain, when it started without knowing that it was going wreak havoc on their farm produces and houses. The Director General, Niger State Emergency Management Agency NSEMA, Ibrahim Inga confirming the development, disclosed three unconfirmed cases of deaths, just many people displaced, while lamenting that over 70% of those affected built on waterways. Speaking on the immediate shelter needs of the displaced people, the DG, NSEMA said over 70% of the affected victims built on waterways, while calling on people to desist from such to prevent such occurrences. 