  By SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA Police in Ogun have launched an operation team to rescue the five pastors of the Redeemed Christian Church of God abducted on their way to attend the Church’s Minister’s Conference in Lagos. The General Overseer of RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adeboye had announced the abduction on Friday while giving a talk at the Redeemed Camp along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Adeboye said that the pastors were kidnapped on Thursday along Ijebu-Ode axis on the Lagos-Benin express way. Speaking in an interview with The Point, the Police Public Relations Officers, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the incident, said that the State Police Commissioner, Bashir Makama has led a strong operation team to the scene of the event to rescue the kidnapped pastors. Oyeyemi said that the five people were kidnapped on Ijebu-Ode axis along Lagos-Benin Expressway, but said that their identification were yet to be known. He gave out their names as: Chidioze Eluwa, Chiemela Iroha, Okoro Olowukwe, Ndubizi Owuabueze and Ibeleji Chidinma, the only female among the victims. The police spokesperson said that the pastors were kidnapped in a commercial bus with registration number KW230XA belonging to Abia Line Transport Company while coming from the Eastern part of the country and were abducted at J3 area of Ogbere, contrary to the speculations that they were abducted in their own car. He said that through surveillance, the police had got to know the hideout of the kidnappers, assuring that they would rescue the victims very soon. He said, “Information at our disposal indicates that some people were traveling in a commercial bus from the East and at a particular spot, some armed criminals came from the bush, forced the driver to stop and later abducted five of the passengers.” “Through surveillance we have got to know their location, but we don’t want to attack them (kidnappers) so that we won’t put the victims’ lives in danger. Their lives are more important to us. By the grace of God, we will rescue the victims”, Oyeyemi said. 