 By TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile -Ife, in Osun State, has been thrown into mourning following the death of a student, identified as Opeyemi Grace Dara. The deceased, who was in the Department of English, was said to have committed suicide after taking a dose of snipper. Although the details of the incident were still sketchy, our correspondent learnt that she took her life following her poor academic performance. The authorities of the institution confirmed that the deceased committed suicide due to depression occasioned by poor academic records. Her academic records obtained indicated that she had many outstanding courses. She was said to be having five outstanding courses and 12 Special Electives. A source said , “A student in the Department of English at OAU in Ile- Ife , Opeyemi Grace Dara, whose set finished their final year exams just last semester has committed suicide through the consumption of the notorious snipper on Friday. She was in the last graduating set; however, she had some outstanding courses . The department is in mourning mood.” When contacted, the Public Relations Officer of OAU, Mr. Abiodun Olanrewaju confirmed the incident and promised that the institution would investigate the incident and make its findings public. He also warned students against taking their lives because of poor academic performance . Olanrewaju said, “ We sympathise with the parents and guardian of the deceased called Dara . We just want our students and young ones to know that depression is not a thing they should encourage, no matter the situation or circumstance they find themselves . “Some people in the past have passed through the same situation and circumstances and came out clean . Now, suicide can never be an option and people, especially the young ones who believe that taking their own lives is an act of gallantry should know that it is not. “We want to appeal to students , particularly OAU students, to take things easy. Any child that fails, that is why the University says ‘you can rerun a course, you can re-sit a course’. People out there also face challenges and when you are in school , failure or repetition of a course or particular subject is also part of the challenges students must face. “So , those who are brilliant are not brilliant because they are brilliant . It is circumstantial; so we sympathise with her parents , guardians , friends , and well-wishers . The University will get to the root of the incident and get back to the public .” 