  Investigations by our correspondent revealed that the illegal business is currently booming with the alleged connivance and backing of some state government officials, especially those in the Social Welfare Department under the state’s Ministry of Women Affairs and Youth Development, who are in charge of the orphanage homes across the state. It was gathered that the orphanage operators and their collaborators in government sell babies aged between three months and one year for between N50,000 and N60,000, depending on the ability of the buyer to negotiate and bargain, while children from seven years old upward, especially females are allegedly being sold to the highest bidders, who can pay between N200,000 and N600,000. The buyers of the children, it was further learnt, are issued cover letters by the orphanage homes certifying them as having been legally adopted by their clients. Although the officials of the Delta State Ministry of Women Affairs and Youth Development through the state’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Peter Mrakpor, have vehemently denied colluding with the orphanage operators to sell off the babies, insiders alleged that the illegal sale of babies by the orphanage homes and some government officials had been going on for some time. Investigations further revealed that over 25,000 orphanage homes exist in the state with many of them operating in dingy environment and dilapidated structures with many of them not even having the official licence to run such homes. It was gathered that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa recently got so worried and unsettled by the increasing illegality perpetrated by the operators of these orphanage homes and the revelations of the illicit business of sale of motherless babies across the state. Government sources, who spoke under the condition of anonymity, said that Governor Okowa, who was angered and alarmed by the development, immediately inaugurated a committee on human trafficking, headed by the state’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Peter Mrakpor. Mrakpor later vowed that his committee was determined to make the illegal sale of babies by the orphanage homes in the state a thing of the past. “We are confronted with the increasing activities of human traffickers in the state and the state government has been worried over the activities of the perpetrators, especially with those operators of motherless babies’ homes in the state. We are determined to rid the state of the illegality allegedly being perpetrated by these operators and possibly bring them to book,” the state’s attorney general and commissioner for justice said. One of the clients of the orphanage homes, who simply identified himself as Iyobosa, told our correspondent, “I paid the sum of N600,000 for the female child of about seven years old and when I tried to ask why the higher price, I was threatened with litigations and I quietly left with the baby. I later found out that all the babies in the orphanage homes in the state are for sale.” Our correspondent gathered that orphanage homes in Asaba, Ughelli communities, Okpanam, Warri, Sapele, among others, allegedly thrive in the sale of motherless babies. It was also learnt that the operators of these orphanage homes carry out their illicit business with some ruthlessness and nonchalance as they are said to always practically bully and stampede childless couples seeking to adopt children from the homes. The Delta State Commissioner of Police, Adeyinka Adeleke, who confirmed the arrest of many of the operators of the orphanage homes in the state, disclosed that the police had launched investigations into the activities of the homes across the state. Adeleke assured that the police would not relent in its efforts to make the state crime-free. “We are investigating various orphanage homes across the state and we have arrested several operators of motherless babies’ homes and subsequently charged them to court and we will ensure the state is crime-free under my watch,” Adeyinka said. Meanwhile, worried by the increasing wave of human trafficking and illegal migrants in the state, the state’s taskforce on human trafficking, on Thursday, in Asaba, embarked on sensitization campaigns on the dangers of the menace. The Chairman of the taskforce, Mr. Peter Mrakpor, while briefing newsmen in Asaba, said that the state government would not fold its arms and watch its citizens ruin their lives by engaging in such a venture, adding, “We cannot fold our arms and watch a person raise as much as N1.5miilion to travel abroad Illegally, when he or she can do good business with such an amount here in Nigeria.” Mrakpor, who described illegal travel abroad as a suicide mission and modern day slavery, however advised those involved in the act to turn a new leaf and engage in meaningful ventures to better their lot. He disclosed that the state government would continue to collaborate with the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons to fight the menace. 