  The Governor of Lions Clubs International District 404-B2 Nigeria, Lion Wesley O. Kafidiya has reiterated his commitment towards working assiduously throughout his 2019/20 tenure and beyond as he promised not to let members down. Kafidiya made this known in his acceptance speech during his inauguration and presentation to the public as District Governor ceremony held in Lagos recently. The DG thanked all members, especially members of the Ikeja Lions Club [‘The Club’] for ‘their unusual trust and confidence’ in him by unequivocally sponsoring him for election as the Second Vice District Governor of District 404-B2 when the opportunity arose in 2016. “I cannot but whole heartedly thank our living heroes, highly respected Lion Leaders, and all distinguished Lions for the massive support and approval of my candidacy and subsequent elections since then,” he added. Pledging that he would not take the expression of trust and confidence reposed on him for granted, the District Governor said his administration would be run on the tripod of transparency, integrity and accountability as the cabinet would be constituted to ensure operational inclusiveness, teamwork and openness for leadership development and succession planning. Speaking on the year’s theme, ‘Strengthening Our Clubs and Communities Through Diversity’, Kadifiya charged all members to always do what they love and love what they do.  He said his administration’s mission would include promotion of a formidable district through dynamic leadership, operational inclusiveness and teamwork, and optimal service delivery with enhanced public visibility. Acknowledging Henry Ford’s statement; “Coming together is a beginning. Keeping together is progress. Working together is success”, Kadifiya pledged to continue with the District Governor Team concept as it fosters collaboration, efficiency, innovation, satisfaction and support. “It also provides continuity in district administration and better prepares the first and second Vice District Governors for the role of Governor. It has worked effectively during this outgoing Lions Year. “I intend to build on the team spirit by delegating specific responsibilities as appropriate to the first and second Vice District Governors to enhance the management and general operations of the district.”  According to him, “Leaders and members at all levels will be aggressively sensitized and mobilized to take advantage of the foregoing and the various available online training programs and resources for leadership and personal development. An innovative Award Program to recognize, celebrate and reward participation in formal and online programs, he noted, would be put in place. On his service year programmes, the DG said the District major focus will be on the Lions Ophthalmology Center at Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital Complex, Ile-Ife. He noted that while the completion of the physical structure of the Ophthalmology Center is receiving appropriate attention, his administration has commenced ground work towards the furnishing and equipping the facility as a Tertiary/Reference Center for all forms of ophthalmology services under LCI Sight First Program. Aside the Ophthalmology Center, he said Lions new service framework would focus its efforts on five service areas: vision, hunger, the environment, pediatric cancer and diabetes. “Clubs will be encouraged to pursue other identified community need projects and activities that will ensure community satisfaction, ownership and sustainability,” he added. He also noted further that LCIF District Coordinator and his team would be mandated and challenged to ensure that all Cabinet Officers, Zone/Region/Committee Chairpersons and Club Presidents subscribe to LCIF Campaign 100 as well as NLCF during this Lions Year. While acknowledging that membership growth, development and retention, are some of the major challenges confronting Lionism in Nigeria and the district especially, the DG said he would employ and reinforce the strategies used by the Outgoing District Governor and also try to develop some additional ways and means of growing its membership, with impressive recognition and awards for individual and club performers. On Leo programme, the DG said efforts will be made during this year to strengthen it through sensitization on the need and means of imbibing best societal values/ideals and provision of socio-economic empowerment opportunities. He said Clubs and Lions will also be encouraged to take more than a passive interest in their affairs, upbringing and development. Kadifiya, however, appealed for the support, cooperation, understanding and prayers of all Lions and well-wishers as he said acknowledged that the tasks ahead are not easy ones. 