  Angela Onwuzoo There are many persons living with disability in the country who are contributing positively to the society. One of them is a popular musician, Yinka Ayefele, who without the use of his legs, is living happily and impacting the lives of other people. He was involved in a ghastly accident that claimed his legs. Despite being on a wheelchair, Ayefele has N800m worth of Music House which, houses his Fresh FM Radio Station in Ibadan, Oyo State. For the popular gospel singer, disability is not a barrier to success as he could still use his talent to empower others despite being wheelchair-bound. Ayefele is among 19 million Nigerians living with disability in the country according to the National Population Commission. Now, if Ayefele could make it in his situation, others living with disability in the country can also make it. This was the crux of the message of stakeholders for leaders from the disability community in Lagos State, during a recent Life Skills Training Programme, organised by the Centre for Youth Studies to empower persons living with disability with skills on character and self development. Speaking at the programme sponsored by Access Bank Plc, Executive Director of the Centre, Mrs Seyi Sanjo-Bankole, told the participants never to allow disability prevent them from exploring their potentials and pursing their dreams. She said the programme seeks to equip persons living with disability in Lagos State with adequate information to make wholesome decisions that will positively impact their lives, communities and the country. She urged them to acquire life skills and ensure that they have good self- image, love themselves, ignore negative criticisms from the society, have good character development, understand their temperament, avoid depression and have healthy relationships. “Avoid inferiority complex, resist negative pressure, do something that add value to your world. Know your strength, be value adding agents to make this world a better place and don’t be quiet,” she said. Citing some success stories of persons living with disability both in and outside the country in her key note address, Dean, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Lagos and a Trustee of the Centre, Prof. Olufunlayo Bammeke, left the participants with three inspiring messages. First, Bemmeke asked them to accept who they are and love themselves, stressing that self-acceptance was key and basis for self-esteem. The Professor also enjoined them to refuse defeat and thirdly to reach for the skies by striving for excellence at all times. “Be the best you can. There are skills to acquire if you want to be the best. When you want to be the best, you must be disciplined, responsible, respectful, caring, good citizen and must also have others in mind. So, I urge you to go forth and reach for the skies and encourage others to do so”, she said. Earlier in a welcome address, Acting General Manager, Lagos State Office for Disability Affairs, Mr. Alejo Adegboyega, commended the Centre for the capacity building programme, adding that it would help persons with disability in the state to be self-reliant and equipped to face challenges in the future. Some of the participants who spoke with out correspondent, said the training was empowering, and reinforced their ability to live independently with disability. They said they were better informed about how to unluck their potentials and make use of their talents to impact their environment positively. The climax of the event was the unveiling of a hand book For Tomorrow’s Sake Club, a youth club established by the Centre that focuses on health and behavioural issues. 