 TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Catholic Bishop of Osogbo Diocese, Most Rev John Oyejola, has urged the Governor of Osun State, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola, to reverse a policy made by his predecessor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, which made it compulsory for all public school students in the state to wear the same type of uniform. The cleric said this inherited education policy needed to be changed to what it used to be, when students of public schools wore different uniforms. Specifically, Bishop Oyejola told Governor Oyetola during a courtesy visit he paid to him in his office in Osogbo recently that the single uniform policy posed great security risk to the state. The bishop also expressed concern over some other policies and initiatives of the state government, which he said were not people-oriented and called for their change. He raised concern in the areas of education, security, return of public schools to their original owners, return of vacated public schools to their original owners, crisis at the Ladoke Akintola University, Ogbomosho and workers’ welfare. Oyejola also asked the governor to review the whole idea of the school re-classification and restructuring by the last administration, and the entire education system of the state. The cleric expressed displeasure over the closure and merger of schools by the last administration, saying that the policy had made it difficult for children in many communities, who may not be able to travel far, to have access to education. He urged Governor Oyetola to return missionary schools to their original owners because of the “sorry state of the public schools in the state.” On education, the bishop further said, “I strongly recommend that your administration should follow up with improvement in the quality of teachers employed by the state; their training and retraining, and welfare packages must be given the necessary attention. Record has it that in the few past years, more than six hundred teachers left the service of the State of Osun for various reasons, ranging from retirement to resignation. And there is no replacement for them yet (or at least, we are not aware). There was no adequate remuneration and motivation for those that are still engaged. “The fruits of school reclassification done by the last administration are yet to manifest because the performances of the candidates presented for external examinations, such as WASSCE and NECO SSCE from public schools across the state, in the recent time have not been good enough for us to applaud all the stakeholders in education sector, including the State Government. It is a worthwhile venture if Your Excellency will review the whole idea of school re-classification and re-structuring of the last administration and the entire education system of the state. “Other areas that need review include the introduction of single uniform to all schools in the state. It is not just strange, but has also robbed on the identity of each student and school, and made discipline in our schools very difficult. Without any intention of being an alarmist, the single uniform system portend security risk. Anyone can perpetrate any crime with it and it will be difficult to track him or her down. The conversion of single-sex schools to co-educational schools should also be reviewed. Oyejola also said, “Many missions deliberately established community based schools to make education accessible to children within their own communities without stress that may be too much for their age. A good number of those schools that were forcefully taken over by the government have been close down by the last administration and merged thereby making it difficult for children in many communities who may not be able to travel far to have access to education. “It must be emphasised that the property still belong to the original owners of the schools who did not collect any compensation. Your Excellency, the continuous hold on our property, especially those already abandoned and merged is unjust to us-the owners, and the communities we serve with them. This certainly needs redress. Most of the owners still hold unit the dream of ensuring availability of education to children in those communities.” On how government could save money for more profitable programmes, Bishop Oyejola strongly recommended the reviews of sponsorship of Christian and Muslim pilgrims to Jerusalem and Mecca, buying food stuff for religious leaders during religious celebrations and use of fleet of cars by political office holders. He also recommended well managed microfinance scheme to empower women, especially those in the rural areas in the state. The bishop also called the attention of the governor to the growing population of street children, especially in Osogbo and Ilesa towns. He said the present state of the Child Welfare and Correctional Home around Aderin/Testing Ground was deplorable, adding that children were locked in there without any form of training and security. The cleric concluded by asking Governor Oyetola to think more of the people, listen to them and be eager to do more for them, while assuring him of prayers and support of the church for all the people- oriented policies of his administration. In his remarks, Governor Oyetola appreciated the visit of Bishop Oyejola and his entourage and also commended the bishop’s concern for the success of his administration. The governor said his administration had been able to ensure that the little security hitches uncovered disappeared completely, maintaining that the Almighty God resides in Osun. Oyetola, who equally told the clergy men that his administration was committed to religious tolerance, stressed that his administration had prioritized the welfare of workers in the area of salaries, promotions and training and added that the development of the state would not be affected in any way as a result of salary payment. He then said that the state government had stopped the sponsorship of pilgrimage to Mecca and Jerusalem in order to save cost, adding that his administration had constituted a committee to see to the possibility or otherwise of returning mission schools, among other reviews. 