 . We’re back in the nights of long knives- CLO . Politicians in power instigating FG against Nigerians- CHDHR . FG’s disrespect for court orders calls for concern- Ozekhome . The country has lost her democracy- CHRSJ . We foresaw this, but thought electorate’ll avert it during 2019 polls- CSCEOS . Buhari on course, democracy not threatened- Accord Party chieftain By AYO ESAN, ADELEKE ADESANYA, TIMOTHY AGBOR, CHRIS NJOKU & SEGUN AYINDE Some Nigerians have warned that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration is steering the country towards full-blown dictatorship. According to these set of Nigerians, who are human rights activists and politicians, recent happenings in the country, particularly those bearing on the violations of the rights of individuals perceived by the Buhari-led administration to be opposed to some of its policies and actions as well as the abridgment of such citizens’ fundamental rights and freedom of speech, association and movement, are enough clear signals that the country is on the precipice about to slip down into dictatorship. Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress and activist, Comrade Timi Frank, is of the opinion that the country under President Buhari was just a few inches away from becoming a dictatorship. Frank argued that a situation where citizens could no longer freely express their opinions because democratic institutions like the National Assembly had become a rubber stamp and comatose, the country was no longer better than it was during the long decades of draconian military rule. He said regretfully, “There was democracy and rule of law under Jonathan but now it’s a rule of force. Under Jonathan. National Assembly was active, but it’s now a rubber stamp. “Under Jonathan there was freedom of speech, but that has long gone under since the inception of the APC administration.” The former APC deputy spokesman further argued that the dictatorial tendency now evident in the governance of the country under the Buhari-led administration had worsened the problem of insecurity, which had become prevalent in all parts of Nigeria, including the President’s home state, Katsina. Frank said, “It is obvious now that insecurity in our nation has gone out of hand. The challenge was limited to a zone under Goodluck Jonathan, but presently, no state, including General Buhari’s home state, is secure. “Under Jonathan, Fulani herdsmen were using stick, but they now carry AK 47. Under Jonathan, lives of Nigerians were more important, despite the challenges, but under Buhari, cows are more important than human lives.” Similarly, a former minister of aviation, Mr. Femi Fani-Kayode, said that the country was heading for doom with the continuous assault on its democracy by the President Buhari-led administration. Fani-Kayode noted that although Nigerians had made the mistake of returning the government for another four-year term, they must take their destiny in their hands by turning to God to save them from the current affliction being inflicted on them by the current administration. “We all saw where the country is heading. We are doomed with the Buhari government. Nigerians have made a mistake already; they must speak for themselves to be saved from this bad government. We must also turn unto God to save us from Nigeria’s Pharaoh before the country is sunk into the red sea,” he said. WE’RE BACK IN THE NIGHTS OF THE LONG KNIVES- CLO The National President of the Civil Liberties Organisation, Comrade Kenny Bakare, expressed fears that with the impunity with which the Federal Government had been trampling on the rights of ordinary Nigerians and the Buhari administration’s inability to check the worsening spate of insecurity, the nation was fasting descending into a state of anarchy. Bakare said, “There is no doubt that our country is in a serious mess and a worrisome state. If this is not curtailed and government retraces its steps, we may be moving towards anarchy. Look at the manner with which court orders are now being violated. Look at the manner with which human rights are being trampled upon. Look at El-zakzaky’s case, look at Sowore as well. “It is as if Nigeria is no more that country we used to know and had been living in. Our President should please have a rethink on all these issues, look into the worsening insecurity, SARS killing people anyhow, herdsmen are also there wreaking havoc. As I said, the President and others should please wake up for the sake of our children’s future, because whatever we do today will affect their tomorrow.” Also, the National Secretary of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, Comrade Yinka Folarin, said that the crass disregard being displayed by the Buhari-led administration for the rights of Nigerians posed serious threat to the country’s democracy. Folarin, who condemned the continued detention of Sowore and the handling of the case of the leader of the Shi’ites, El-Zakzaky, noted that some politicians, especially Governor Ahmed El-Rufai of Kaduna State should stop instigating the Federal Government against other Nigerians. He warned that the activities of the so called hawks surrounding the President had the potential to truncate the nation’s democracy. A Senior Advocate of Nigeria and human rights activist, Chief Mike Ozekhome, said that the way and manner in which the President Buhari-led administration had been violating the fundamental rights of Nigerians through the same court, which orders it had failed to obey on several occasions, called for concern. Ozekhome argued that the same “offences” the current administration was now hounding and detaining some Nigerians for was committed by many of the country’s incumbent leaders, including President Buhari himself, against the previous government before they won the 2015 general elections without the government in power then going after or clamping any of them in detention. According to him, “I have said this before, the court-ordered detention of Omoyele Sowore on the application of the Federal Government is bad news for democracy and human rights, especially because the application was made and granted ex parte. What was the extreme urgency in the matter (usually the main ground for granting ex parte orders) that the Judge couldn’t order the government (who in any case was already detaining Sowore) to put him on notice? The court could also and section 410 of the Penal Code, which criminalises treason, envisions a dire situation where an intention to overthrow a government, or overawe the President or Governor of a state (called “mens rea”) is accompanied and have carefully itemized their grievances in writing? Do these amount to treason or treasonable felony? “Do you announce a “revolution”, if not for the mischief of some people deliberately reading the word literally rather than figuratively? Didn’t President Muhammadu Buhari in 2014 call for a “revolution” in Nigeria during campaigns for presidency? Didn’t Chief Bola Tinubu in 2011 call for a “revolution”? Were they interpreted literally to mean actual overthrow of the then government of President Goodluck Jonathan? Didn’t Nigerians understand this to mean a peaceful change of government through the ballot box? Why are we suddenly stretching it? Didn’t the APC leadership, including Sowore himself, literally shut down Nigeria in January, 2012, during massive protests against the attempt by the then Jonathan administration to remove so called oil subsidy? Did this government not later hike it from N97 to its present N140 a litre? “So much for duplicity and double standards by overt acts (called “actus reus”), such as stockpiling and possession of arms and ammunition to physically carry out an insurrection, coup de’tat, or to use Sowore and his group’s terminology, revolution. Do mere uttered words, “We will cause a revolution” by Nigerians who are singing, dancing and carrying placards on the streets, shouting “aluta continua, victoria acerta”,without more, constitute treasonable felony? Especially by Nigerians who are protesting against bad governance and tolerance of criticism, the rule of law, individual fundamental rights, political choices, plurality of voices, dissenting opinions and independence of the Judiciary. Is it not ironic that the same government that never obeys court orders (Dasuki, Elzakzaky, et al),always run to the same courts to obtain ex parte orders, whenever it pleases them and satiate their massive egos.” NIGERIA HAS LOST HER DEMOCRACY- CHRSJ Speaking in the same vein, the Executive Chairman of the Centre for Human Rights and Justice, Comrade Adeniyi Alimi Sulaiman, said that the country had been plunged into the abyss of draconian and dictatorial governance under the current administration. Sulaiman told The Point that President Buhari, who is one of the former military rulers of the country, had demonstrated enough tendencies that he had yet to extricate himself from that dictatorial mentality of military rule and conform to democratic tenets. He stressed that Nigerians should be aware that the country had fallen back into dictatorship even under a supposed civilian democracy, citing the recent arrest and detention of activist, Omoyele Sowore, over a planned nationwide protest and the long detention of the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky and his wife by the Department of State Services inspite of several court rulings against their incarceration by the secret security agency. The CHRSJ boss argued that all these infringement and curtailment of the fundamental rights of these Nigerians and others showed that Nigeria had “lost her democracy.” Sulaiman said, “For the Federal Government to order the Department of Security Service to arrest Omoyele Sowore in that manner and to have also detained him beyond the number of hours the constitution clearly stipulates, is a pointer to the fact that we have already been plunged into dictatorial governance. “For God’s sake, when has peaceful protest by citizens become a crime? If we are still in democracy, Sowore shouldn’t have been arrested in such a manner, not to talk of being detained. It’s clear that we have lost our democracy in this country. Sections 39, 40, and 42 of the 1999 Constitution guarantee and empower citizens to organise peaceful protests, no matter the name they decide to call it. “The court judgement that ordered that Sowore should be detained for 45 days is draconian, unconstitutional, illegal and unacceptable. We will ensure that the judge that made that pronouncement is dragged before the National Judicial Council.” The activist added, “What happened to Bola Tinubu when he called for a revolution in 2011 against the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan? Nothing! We will resist Buhari from dragging this nation back to the days of the Abacha junta. “Let’s not forget that Buhari is a former military head of state and just like late Gani Fawehinmi said, any military ruler in a democratic government is an anathema, illegal, unconstitutional, a burden and a crime against humanity. And these ugly attributes perfectly describe Buhari. We are already in dictatorship! “The DSS doesn’t know the law. They do whatever Buhari tells them and they have appeared to be highly undemocratic. When Buhari has seen that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has been exposing how he robbed Nigerians to get to power in the last general elections, Buhari has since been witch-hunting Atiku’s men. “It’s unfortunate that INEC is no longer independent. It’s now Inconclusive National Experiment Commission. When they see that Atiku is now exposing the lacuna and atrocities in the manner Buhari rode to power, Buhari has been conspiring with APC and INEC to arrest Atiku’s men with trumped up charges. These are characteristics of a dictatorial government. We are praying that karma will visit all those that are plunging us back into the military era and may God punish them in the hottest part of hell.” WE SAW IT COMING BUT THOUGHT NIGERIANS’LL AVERT IT IN THE 2019 POLLS- CSCEOS Also, the Secretary of the Civil Societies Coalition for the Emancipation of Osun State, Comrade Oluwole Oladapo told The Point on the phone that the group foresaw the dictatorial tendency of President Buhari, but had thought Nigerians would checkmate this by voting him out during the 2019 general elections. Oladapo said that Nigerians should not continue to delude themselves that the country was still under democratic rule as the current administration has already spawned a full-blown dictatorship on the people by the tendencies it had been exhibiting lately. “It would be an understatement to say that Nigeria is slipping into dictatorship. The fact is that we are in a full blown dictatorship already. We are not surprised that things are like this in this country because we saw it coming. We only thought that Nigerians saw it too and that they would avert it during election. The CSCEOS secretary said, “We are not surprised because dictatorship is a characteristic of Buhari. We saw it coming with his antecedents, but we thought it would be averted. But people have decided. We are already in doom and a banana republic. The law has already taken a back seat. “When has it become a crime for one to register his feelings in this country? Nowhere is safe again. We used to have kidnapping cases in the South South and South East, but now, it’s all over the country. We used to hear of terrorism and banditry in the North, but now, it’s everywhere. We have become a nation without direction. “How on earth should a court confine an innocent citizen to 45 days in cell? Where is it in our law? The judiciary has been turned into a puppet in the hands of the judiciary. This is very unfortunate! It’s better we don’t have the judiciary and legislature than to join the bandwagon of despotism and highhandedness of the Buhari administration. “The court gave El-Zakzaky leave to travel for medical treatment, but he is still in detainment. This is absurd and undemocratic.” But an Accord Party candidate for the Imo State House of Assembly during the 2019 election, Hon. Emeka Ahaneku, rose to the defence of the Buhari administration, arguing that the country’s democracy remained secure under the current government. Ahaneku said that the security agencies did what was required of them in the cases of Sowore and El-Zakzaky. He argued that calling for a revolution in a democratic setting, where you have a sitting president amounted to treason. “For me, I think the DSS did what they are supposed to do. The issue is not about the President, it is about the national security. I think the President has done a lot as far as security is concerned because the country is in a deep security threat,” he said. He said what the country needed now was a revolution of ideas and not violence, adding that all Nigerians must do all within their powers to sustain democracy. “We should all find a way of saving this country by finding ways of developing the country, not by forceful take-over of power. For me, the country is not drifting. The issue is that many of these politicians did terrible things while in power that require investigation. If the country was slipping towards anarchy, PDP would not have won a single seat. I believe anybody that has a case should be investigated,” Ahaneku said. However, a PDP chieftain who pleaded not to be mentioned described happenings in the country as barbaric, saying, “There is impunity everywhere; we don’t even know if Nigeria is a private property of President Buhari.” 