 TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Some pioneer volunteers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps have appealed to the authorities of the organisation to give preference to them in the ongoing recruitment of personnel for the corps. The NSCDC pioneer volunteers under the Osun State Command in Osogbo said that the leadership of the corps should consider their sacrifices and those of their older colleagues across the country in safeguarding the security and peace of Nigeria through their active and selfless participation in the activities of the Civil Defence by absorbing them in the current recruitment exercise of the corps. They lauded the Federal Government’s giant strides in curtailing the activities of insurgents across the country, especially in the area of combating vandalisation of electricity poles and pipelines belonging to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, among others. In a chat with our correspondent, the Coordinator of the NSCDC pioneer volunteers, Comrade Sunday Oyedokun, also lauded the submission of a lawmaker, Hon. Goodluck Opiah Nanah, representing Ohaji Egbema Oru-West Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives in the 8th Assembly concerning the absorption of volunteers. He said, “This singular act of patriotism of Hon.Goodluck Opiah Nanah that bothers on the fact that the volunteers of NSCDC must be integrated into the corps, came to the fore on 23rd of March, 2017. “He was quoted as saying that the plight of the old volunteers of the NSCDC, who have yet to be absorbed into the corps must be looked into holistically. “Hon. Nanah had recalled that before the formal adoption of the NSCDC as a paramilitary organisation by the Federal Government, recruitment into the corps was voluntary by individuals who desired to serve their father land.” Comrade Oyedokun maintained that the NSCDC, since inception, had been complementing the efforts of other security agencies in the country to check crime, and ensure the safety of lives and property. According to the Osun State coordinator of the old volunteers of the NSCDC, there is no concrete efforts or plan to absorb majority of the volunteers into the mainstream organisation since 1988. He noted that the development had worsened unemployment in the entire country. Oyedokun, therefore, appealed to the Federal Government and the top brass of the corps to seriously and passionately consider the old volunteers and integrate them into the NSCDC without further delay. He posited that the NSCDC top brass should also consider the dependants or relations of the old members of the corps, who are no longer fit to work, by offering them job opportunities in the Civil Defence. 