 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (rtd.), has described Osun State as a role model to other states in the country in terms of peaceful coexistence among the people, irrespective of their religious differences. The ex-leader, who arrived the state since Saturday, had led a prayer for the country through the Movement with a view to achieving a peaceful, secured and more united Nigeria. He lauded the way and manner he found the people of Osun living together in peace and harmony and playing their roles well with prayer and unity for the good of the state, the country and mankind. Gowon then advised other Nigerian states to emulate the manner at which the people of Osun have been operating peacefully without rancour despite their varying religious and tribal backgrounds. He maintained that Nigerians need to develop a sense of unity, love and respect for one another, adding that his greatest wish is for Nigeria to continue to dwell in unity and peace. He said, “I am delighted to tell everyone that Osun is a role model state for other states in the country, because it has attributes that must be adopted by all to have peaceful co-existence. “All the religious bodies: Christianity, Islam and Traditional religion are clearly playing out their roles here as prayer warriors for the good of the state, for the good of Nigeria, and for the good of mankind. “Honestly, among the states that we have been to as Nigeria Prays Movement, Osun State stands out. We were well received, and we saw your good character on display. The governor told me he is a man of prayers and he believes in prayers. “I can confirm the manifestation of his prayers and strong belief in God on the life of the people. You certainly made us to feel very loving towards one another, and I will say thank you very much indeed. “Honestly, I think I have fallen in love with Osun State and its people, and this is where I see the faith in Nigeria that Muslims and Christians as well as Traditionalists go hand in hand to celebrate one another in truth, by bringing a sense of unity, love and respect for one another. “Nigeria needs this more than anything else. My prayer has always been: let Nigeria continue to dwell in peace and unity.” Responding, Governor Oyetola said he felt honoured to welcome the former head of state to the state, describing the retired general as a man of history that cannot be forgotten. He said Gowon was a man without controversy, commending him for serving Nigeria well to ensure development and unity. 