  Angela Onwuzoo Citing the risk of unsafe abortion occasioned by unplanned pregnancy, stakeholders in the health sector have called on government at all levels to massively invest in family planning to enable more women and girls have access to modern contraceptive methods of their choice. The importance of family planning based on available evidence, they say, cannot be over-emphasised, stressing that it strengthens the health of the woman on every side. It has been proven to be low-cost yet effective way of preventing maternal deaths, whereby risky pregnancies that often result in unsafe abortions are avoided. According to them, family planning reduces maternal deaths by over 30 percent and can effectively prevent unsafe abortion. Nigeria, from available data, has one of the highest maternal mortality ratios in the world. Although the government has acknowledged the problem and is committed to improving maternal health, evidence suggests that progress has been limited, and unsafe abortion remains a major contributor to maternal morbidity and mortality. In a hospital based study titled, “Unsafe Abortion and Maternal Mortality in Nigeria: A Review”, carried out by Edidiong Ime from the University of Uyo, the research revealed that unsafe abortion is a common cause of maternal mortality in Nigeria, but can be prevented through the use of modern contraceptives. According to Ime, the impact of unsafe abortion on maternal mortality is underappreciated because of the clandestine nature of the practice. “The methods used for unsafe abortion are diverse and the reasons given for them are not limited to unwanted and unplanned pregnancies only. Restrictive abortion laws, socioeconomic disadvantage, socio-cultural and religious beliefs have been seen as factors that have helped to proliferate the scourge”, he said. He however, identified increased use of contraceptive services as a public health measure and strategy for preventing unplanned pregnancies and unsafe abortion and by extension, maternal mortality. Findings from National Demographic and Health Survey 2018, suggest that unintended pregnancy—the root cause of most abortions—is still occurring at moderately high levels in Nigeria. Experts are attributing the high rates of unintended pregnancy and abortion to the combination of low prevalence of contraceptive use (especially use of modern methods) and the high proportion of women who need these methods to avoid unwanted births or (particularly in the case of sexually active unmarried young women) to delay their first pregnancy. For the Chief Medical Director, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, Prof. Adetokunbo Fabamwo, cases of unplanned pregnancy and unsafe abortion could be effectively addressed through increased investment in family planning and the health of women in general. Speaking at a SAFE ENGAGE Journalists Training Workshop in the state, organised recently by Population Reference Bureau in collaboration with the Network of Reproductive Health Journalists of Nigeria, Fabamwo, identified lack of access to family planning as one of the major factors contributing to unsafe abortion. “Estimates show that unsafe abortions account for roughly 5,000 maternal deaths every year in Nigeria, or on average, 14 maternal deaths each day. Unsafe abortions are also costly to women and the health care system”, he said. The LASUTH boss revealed that due to the nation’s restrictive abortion laws, 60 percent of abortions in Nigeria were carried out by quacks, while 40 percent were performed by doctors with skills. He noted that since the ban and restriction on abortion did not prevent it from happening, the use of family planning would go a long way in preventing unwanted pregnancies that often end in unsafe abortion. Another maternal health advocate, Kabir Abdullahi, on his part, said family planning could significantly address the poor state of maternal health in the country. According to him, 90 Nigerian women are dying daily from pregnancy complications such as unsafe abortion translating into four women dying per hour. “One in 13 women are at risk of maternal death in Nigeria against 1 in 26 for Subsaharan Africa. In Sweden, for instance, maternal death is one in 7,000 women. This is a reflection of the society’s priority to the lives of women”, he said. Lamenting the poor attitude of women to family planning in the country, Abdullahi, said the use of modern contraceptive in Nigeria is still at 10 per cent translating into one in 10 women using contraceptive. According to him, “There is need to ensure availability of the commodities free of charge. Even a small cost can deny a woman from accessing these commodities. Myths and misconception must be addressed through proper counselling of the side effects associated with each method before making choice.” He went on “We need to expand access and make the services available to women. Husbands need to support their wives in accessing the services because is a life saving commodity. And the government should have budget lines for family planning/ childbirth spacing. Now, media stations should promote benefits of contraceptive utilisation and reduce incidences of deaths from unsafe abortion.” Abdullahi identified ignorance, cultural and religious beliefs, funding, political will, inaccessibility as major factors affecting use of family planning in Nigeria, adding that myths and misconception about family planning could be corrected through proper education of the women and by making services closer and accessible to them. Stakeholders believe that by substantial improvements in funding for family planning, certainly, more women and girls will automatically have access to modern contraceptives with ease, and with that, unintended pregnancy will technically be reduced to the minimum. Similarly, by reducing rates of unintended pregnancies, through family planning, the scourge of unsafe abortion will be reduced. This, therefore, calls for commitment and increased investment in family planning. The evidences are glaring that failure of the federal and state governments to fund family planning will negatively affect not only the wellbeing of Nigerians but, also prevent the country from meeting its Family Planning 2020 target. To reach the set Contraceptive Prevalence Rate target by 2020, the former Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, said Nigeria requires $652m over the next five years to invest in high-impact family planning interventions including contraceptives. According to him, this investment would have enormous benefits; estimated $1.40 would be saved on maternal and newborn health care for every dollar invested in family planning and another $4 would be saved on treating complications of unplanned pregnancies, resulting in 30,000 maternal deaths and 5.19 million unplanned pregnancies averted and cost saving of $1.02 billion. Incidentally, preventing pregnancy-related health risks in women in Nigeria can only be achieved if the government removes all barriers hindering women from accessing modern contraceptives and methods of family planning which can only be attained through adequate funding. Available modern family planning/childbirth spacing methods in Nigeria include: *Pill (including the minipills for nursing mothers) *Injectables (taken every 2 or 3months depending on the type selected) *Implant *Intra-Uterine Device(IUD) *Male condom *Female condom *Exclusive breastfeeding method *Tubal Ligation(BTL-permanent methods for women) *Vasectomy(Permanent method for men). 