 SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA Muslim faithful in Ogun may have to pay more for the rams with which to celebrate this year’s Eid-el-Kabir as the prices of livestock have skyrocketed in various markets across the state. They lamented that the price of ram for this year’s celebration was higher when compared with the previous years’, when they were able to buy the livestock at lower prices. The buyers said that the cost for the smallest ram now goes for N50,000 while that of the biggest ram is N360,000, which had now made it difficult for them to buy the rams of their choice at affordable prices, as many of them were observed by our correspondent combing markets in the state for affordable livestock. At the Olomore Market in Abeokuta, the state capital, only fewer buyers were seen haggling with the dealers in a bid to agree on affordable prices, a task which was clearly seen to be difficult for both the sellers and the buyers. A buyer, Mr. Olakunle Mikail, attributed the low turn-out of Muslims at the ram market to the economic hardship currently being experienced by all Nigerians. Mikail lamented the exorbitant prices of big rams in the market, which he said was as high as between N120,00 and N360,000, saying that rams were costlier this year than in 2018, adding that since he could afford to purchase any of the livestock available in the market, he would have to move elsewhere in search of affordable ram for the sallah festival. “The turnout of the buyers is so low because the rams are very expensive. I mean, how can one afford to buy a ram for N360,000 or N320,000? Is it not better to even buy a cow of N120,000?” he said. Another prospective buyer at the market, Alhaja Aliat Osho, said that the prices of rams this year were not affordable, as her budget for livestock for the festival could not make it possible for her to get the livestock of her choice. “The price is very high compared to last year. We have been in this market for over one hour; may be it was because of the economic situation in the country and our budget is low for what we have here,” she said. Similarly, at the Lafenwa Market, Abeokuta, prospective buyers were seen wondering in the market and moving from one dealer to the other with a view to getting affordable prices for the rams of their choice. A village head, Chief Rasheed Jibona, who was also at the market to purchase a ram, told our correspondent he couldn’t afford the livestock of his choice because of the exorbitant prices. Jibona expressed regret that the current economic hardship had made rams for this year’s Eid-el-Kabir too expensive to afford and lamented that a small ram, which he was supposed to buy at the rate of N40,000, was now being sold for N50,000. “I think the price is going higher because the small ram I was bargaining for was supposed to be N40,000 or N45,000, but the dealer insisted on selling it for N50,000, which I can’t afford,” he said. Also a visit to Kuto Market revealed that the livestock traders, who were mostly elderly women, were not happy with the situation of things because patronage was very low. The Vice Chairman of ram dealer in the market, Madam Amoke Ayede, said that only few buyers had been visiting the market to haggle for the prices with many of them not able to afford any ram eventually. She, however, appealed to Muslims faithful to patronise the market for the sallah rams as most of them were elderly women who had taken loans to enable them to purchase the livestock for the purpose of the sallah festival and would not be happy if they were not able to repay the loans after this period. “We can’t compare this year to last year. We are old women in this market; some of us borrowed money to buy these rams so that we can sell them at profitable prices to people. But as it is right now, buyers are not patronizing us and the few who came so far were haggling prices at the rate we cannot sell them because we have to make our own profits, too,” she said. A buyer, Ismail Akinyele, who came to the market with some of his family members, said that the rams for this year’s Eid-ei-Kabir were more expensive than those of last year, adding that it was difficult for them to buy a ram for N30,000. 