 By Osemwengie Ben Ogbemudia, Benin The current political situation in Edo State is a clear indication that a quick resolution of the ongoing dogfight between the embattled Governor Godwin Obaseki and his estranged godfather, who is also the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is not in sight. Rather, the crisis has continued to fester. This is inspite of Senate’s directive last week to Governor Obaseki to issue another proclamation for the fresh inauguration of the state’s lawmakers or risk a situation where the upper legislative chamber would take over the functions of the Edo State House of Assembly. It is also very clear now that with the escalating political crisis and the worsening relations between Obaseki and his godfather, Oshionhole, it would be easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for the embattled incumbent governor to emerge as the gubernatorial candidate of the APC in the 2020 gubernatorial election in the state, not to talk of getting re-elected as governor for a second term. Obaseki and 2020 governorship poll A chieftain of the APC, Garuba Sylvanus, accused the Obaseki administration of humiliating, insulting, discrediting and intimidating the leaders of the ruling party in Edo State for demanding good governance. Sylvanus also accused Governor Obaseki of biting the hand that fed him by turning against those who worked for his election in 2016, threatening that he would face the consequences of his action in the run-up to next year’s governorship poll in the state. According to him, “As the 2020 gubernatorial election beckons and as aspirants will soon be campaigning for the number one office in the state, it behoves on us all to ensure that he who the cap fits wears it. We are, however, not ignorant of the happenings in the state since this government came to power. “How on Earth will you bring the names of your party leaders into disrepute because of politics of re-election? How will a man in his right senses fight those who brought him to power? It’s only a political neophyte that fights his leaders and party structures in his first tenure and expects to be nominated for a second term. It’s like throwing spanner in your wheel of political progress and expect it to roll smoothly. Now that the coast is clear ahead of the 2020 election year, people will soon know the truth in Edo Politics.” Speaking in the same vein, the immediate past attorney general and commissioner for Justice in the state, Hon. Henry Idahagbon, recently noted, “This present administration led by Governor Godwin Obaseki has been importing strangers to Edo State as contractors, thereby disregarding the citizens of the state, who are more qualified to do the Job. “I am sure you know that two key members of Obaseki’s group have defected to the PDP. These persons worked day and night to make Godwin Obaseki governor. Today, they are members of the PDP. So, that is why I said we voted for a man we did not know. But I assure you that in 2020, we will determine who governs Edo State. The battle is on, there is no retreat, no surrender. We will tell him (Obaseki) that we are politicians and that we have been in this business before him. If the current romance with the PDP big wigs will save him, we shall see. In fact, we would seek the services of the best Edo musicians to celebrate his exit from the Government House. “Flowing from his recent actions and inactions, it is obvious that Godwin Obaseki is a governor without political character, structure and respect for party hierarchy; hence, we must and should ensure he packs his baggage and see that he is sent back to Lagos.” Why Oshiomhole is after Gov Obaseki- Edo Assembly speaker But the Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Mr. Frank Okiye, has stoutly defended the embattled governor, saying that the current crisis rocking the state legislature was part of the ploy by Oshiomhole to eventually deny his estranged godson, Obaseki, the second term ticket. Okiye, however, warned that the planned takeover of the state Assembly by the Senate could destabilise the state. He, therefore, enjoined the Federal upper legislative arm to only act as an agent of peace, rather than a purveyor of crisis. The Edo speaker said, “The truth is that the Edo State Assembly and my office, as the speaker, are not the real targets of this crisis. The plot is actually aimed at Governor Obaseki, and the endpoint is to stop him from getting a return ticket as governor next year. “Oshiomhole is actually after Obaseki. The state Assembly crisis is only a smokescreen to cover his plans. The idea now is to take over the House, destabilise the state and possibly impeach the governor. The Edo Peoples Movement that originated this crisis has boasted that they will ensure that the governor does not come back for a second tenure.” “I have said it before on several occasions that we know who is beating the drum for them in the National Assembly. They have found themselves in the position of a stooge to make it look like they cannot think outside the box. It’s unfortunate Obaseki is the target.” Urging his aggrieved colleagues to come over to the Assembly to regularise their documents as lawmakers-elect, the Edo Assembly speaker said plenary activities had been on fully with the lawmakers present considering bills, screening commissioners and aides and carrying out other legislative activities. Okiye said, “We have been sitting as a parliament. I just drove out of office after the plenary session. Lawmakers are going about their committee work. We just invited the commissioner for works nominated by Governor Obaseki to appear before the House over a matter of public importance. “The door is open to the remaining lawmakers-elect. They should come to the Assembly to complete and regularise their documentation and they will be sworn in. The constitution says when the House is unable to sit, that means when it cannot perform the functions it was supposed to perform. And this notification was supposed to be given or declared by the governor, who will say that there is no one to clear my commissioners, oversee my legislative requests and so on. That’s what the constitution contemplates; not the National Assembly sitting over a state Assembly as if we are a colony under them.” Speaking on the next line of action, the speaker said, “We are in court; we have sued them and got two separate injunctions and we are going to cite all the cases in court on the pages of newspapers. The other twelve members-elect have also sued and challenged the legitimacy of my speakership. “So, which means all the parties in this issue have cases in court already. We have a restraining order against the National Assembly, against the security agencies, against the party and their agents. So, why is the National Assembly trying to usurp the functions of the court?” But while speaking on why the 12 lawmakers-elect from the state relocated to Abuja, a lawyer and APC chieftain from Edo North, Oni-Olusola Gbenga, said If the dissenting members-elect had not been beaten up by thugs, which was not an enforcement of a court order, perhaps, they would not have fled Benin to seek refuge in Abuja and also petition the police and the National Assembly. He said, “Everybody is blaming Oshiomhole and now, the National Assembly. Nobody is talking about the crime of thuggery.  Look at the windows opened for political interventions, including initiatives by some APC governors and the Oba of Benin, Obaseki slammed them shut, beating his chest and threatening everybody like a traditional ruler. In one of his frequent trips (almost daily) to Abuja, has he tried to seek out the members and have a conversation with them? “If US President Trump could talk to Kim Jung Un of North Korea, why can’t Governor Obaseki talk to lawmakers elected on the platform of his own political party? Governors are mere mortals. In my life time, I have seen governors (both civilian and military) in the height of their glory. I have also seen some cringing at military tribunals or hauled to courts or prisons in the old Black Maria. Their family members, including those hitherto powerful first ladies and beautiful daughters reduced to beggars. No condition is permanent.” Warri high chief disagrees with Ijaw leader, Clark, over Edo cirisi However, the ongoing political crisis in Edo State has sparked off an exchange of words in neighbouring Delta State between the Ologbotsere (traditional prime minister) of Warri Kingdom, Chief Ayiri Emami, and elder statesman and prominent Ijaw leader, Chief Edwin Clark. The Ologbotsere has warned the Ijaw leader to stop interfering in the politics of Edo State, saying he was shocked by the comments made by Clark on the political crisis rocking the state. Clark had faulted the ultimatum the two chambers of the National Assembly had given Governor Obaseki to issue a fresh proclamation for the inauguration of the state House of Assembly or risk a take-over of the state’s legislature. He had described the National Assembly’s directives as unconstitutional. But Emami, who is also a chieftain of the APC, described Clark’s statement as unfortunate. The Warri high chief, who also accused the Ijaw leader of taking side, said Clark should have advised Obaseki to comply with the laws of the land rather than encouraging him to continue his illegality on the improper inauguration of the Edo State House of Assembly. Emami said, “When I read what Chief Clark said,  I felt very disappointed because he is an elder statesman and he should know the laws more than many of us. ” In 2015, I recall that Chief Clark never supported Governor Obaseki; so if Obaseki is trying to be very ungrateful to people that brought him to power, I think as a father, Chief Clark should have advised him better, not to cause chaos in Edo State, because Edo and Delta are still the same”. “I expected him to call Obaseki and advise him as a father, but he did not do that. Rather, he took side immediately. Let me tell you, there is nothing about Edo State that we don’t know. The National Assembly has it as a duty to intervene in any state Assembly that has crisis. So, for anybody to fault that move is unfortunate and that is why I am shocked with the comment made by Chief EK Clark. “All of us knew how Obaseki became governor of Edo state, he was never a politician. It was Oshiomhole who made him governor against all odds. Oshiomhole offended many people loyal to him just because he wanted to make Obaseki governor. So, it is unfortunate that today, the governor sees himself as a tin god, exhibiting so much disrespect for the man that made him governor. That is ingratitude of the highest order and it is not good for him as a governor. Continuing, the Warri high chief said, “Even comedians are now using Obaseki to crack jokes, he has become a laughing stock in the eyes of the public and that is not good. There is an adage in Itsekiri which says you must remember the good of yesterday. Whatever Obaseki is doing, he must sleep and reflect the good time he had with Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. A couple of times I had opportunity to sit with the Comrade and he kept telling me that ‘Ayiri, you know how I laboured to bring Obaseki; so I cannot support in pulling that house down.’ So, I don’t see Comrade fighting Obaseki, but Obaseki is just fighting himself. “It is unfortunate that the governor has allowed some politicians to take advantage of this crisis so as to make money from him. They are hailing him and before he will realise what he is doing, he is already in a big mess. So, Chief EK Clark should concentrate on Delta State, where he caused so much problem for people and leave Edo alone, because he does not know how Obaseki became governor.” 