 The Rotary club International, Ijebu Igbo Metropolitan, Ogun State, has urged Nigerians to imbibe the culture of tree planting in their surroundings, work places and residences in order to curtail environmental hazards. The President, Rotary Club International, Ijebu Igbo Metropolitan, Prince Amo Tubosun Amo, made this appeal during the tree planting exercise for the 2O19 calendar year of the club in Ijebu Igbo, Ijebu North Local Government as part of the Club’s first outing in the year. He said the club was made up of 25 prominent sons and daughters of Ijebu Igbo, who came together two months ago form it and struggled to secure its recognition the Rotary by the Rotary Club International, U.S.A. Amo said that the club was able to achieve the feat due to the efforts of some notable indigines of the town, who accelerated direct impact along with others, including the likes of PAG, Rotarian Sotunde Solu ,DG Adetona and others. He, therefore, promised that Ijebu Igbo would witness rapid development that would put the town on the world map of Rotary Club International. Saying that the club had come to stay, he extended appreciation to Rotarian Toyin Abas for providing them accommodation and the Head of Local Government Administration, Ijebu North Local Government, Mr. Oduneye. The goodwill message was delivered on the occasion by Rotarian Sotunde Solu, the representative of the District Governor, Rotarian
Jide Akeredolu. The district governor enjoined all members to embrace tree planting and commended the Rotary Club International, Ijebu Igbo Metropolitan, for beginning well by starting with the closest level of government ( the local government), expressing confidence that they would go far in bringing development to the town. He further urged the members to campaign for the eradication of Polio by educating the indigines to make themselves available for the vaccines because of the importance of immunisation. He also advised them to encourage people to join Rotary club in order to uplift it to a mega club within the shortest time. The guest lecturer on the occasion, Dr. Olugbenga Azeez, who is also the secretary of ASUU,OOU Chapter, said in his lecture entitled, “The Importance of Tree Planting” that climate change posed serious threat to poverty eradication,food and energy security and sustainable development. He warned that Nigeria was no exception to this threat because the country has a large rural population, which directly depends on climate- sensitive economic and development sectors( Agriculture and Fisheries), natural resources ( such as water ,biodiversity, grasslands) for their subsistence and livelihood. Azeez identified deforestation as the major problem facing rural communities in Nigeria, adding that the problem posed the biggest environmental threats to the population of the forest regions of Nigeria. According to him, the rural population depends heavily on the forests for their living and livelihood as trees are being felled indiscriminately for farming ,fuel wood and for timber without much efforts made towards replacing the felled trees. The lecturer said the challenge was in trying to reduce the felling of trees and the dependence on fuel wood by the communities for cooking ,shelter and sale as a means of income and sustenance. He said, “While it is not possible to totally stop the use of fuel wood, it is rather instructive to introduce sustainable alternative cooking methods,thus reducing household expenditure on fuel. “Over two thirds of Nigeria’s 15Omillion people depend on wood for their domestic cooking ,fish smoking and gaari frying (processed cassava)and this method results in a 9O% loss of energy and tyoical my average 3.5 hours per day spent in collecting wood, especially in rural areas. “Trees are the main source of household energy in Africa,with 82percent of household relying on fuel wood and charcoal for cooking and heating , felling is expected to increase by 2Opercent over the 2OIO to 2O3O periods. “It would not be be out of place to say that without trees human would not be able to exist on this beautiful planet. Trees play a key role in the economies of many households in Nigeria and Africa serves as source of employment and economic growth as well as contributes to risk reduction and resilience strategies.” The guest lecturer further stated that trees provide materials for domestic construction, furniture
and mining industries for the growing urban population and in some countries are significant sources of export revenue. He added, “Trees directly enhance fertility and productivity in Agricultural landscapes, help control erosion, also a direct source of fuel,timber,food and animal fodder. “Forests play a key role in broader watershed protection of coastlines and climate regulation through carbon storage, produce oxygen, clean the soil, flood control,control noise pollution,slow storm water runoff and mental health.” He further said trees give shade and is best known for reducing the need for air-conditioning during the summer and in the winter, break the force of winter winds ,lowering heating costs, and it’s also a wind breaker “that lower home heating bills by up to 3OO% and have a significant effect on reducing snow drills,even reduced the drying effect on soil and vegetation behind the wind break.” Azeez urged the people to campaign massively and embark on efforts to reduce environmental pollution and erosion problem, capacity building and entrepreneur education for the youth and more investment in the Agriculture sector in line with Maputo Declaration of 19% to which Nigeria is a signatory. Rotarian Toyin Abass urged the indigines of the town to embrace and join the club for the development of the town. 