 Angela Onwuzoo To enable more children in Lagos State have access to basic healthcare services, the United Nations Children’s Fund and National Orientation Agency, have called on parents, especially those in rural and hard-to-reach areas, to register the birth of their children with the National Population Commission. The UN children agency and NOA made the call as NPopC, in collaboration with relevant stakeholders, intensifies efforts to register the birth of one million under-5 children in the state before the end of 2019. Data from RapidsmsNigeria. org, a global birth registration platform, show that over 1,433,896 under-5 children in Lagos State do not have birth certificate. According to NPoPC, an agency responsible for the registration of birth and death in the country, children, whose births are not registered in legal terms, do not exist. This, the commission said, is because they do not have official record of their full names, parents, place of birth, date of birth, and nationality. Speaking at a two-day media workshop in Ibadan, Oyo State, organised by NOA in collaboration with UNICEF on the need to scale-up birth registration in Lagos State, representatives of the two agencies and NPoPC, acknowledged that beyond providing identity for a child, birth registration brings about proper economic planning on part government. Birth registration, according to the stakeholders, is the official recording of the birth of a child through an administrative process of the state and is coordinated by a particular branch of government. It is a permanent and official record of a child’s existence- evidenced by a birth certificate. In her submission, Child Protection Specialist, UNICEF Abuja, Mrs Sharon Oladiji, said birth registration data, when correctly collected, could play an important role in the planning of a country’s economic and social development. “Disaggregated population data can help – identify geographic, social, economic, and gender disparities within national boundaries. “Registering the child will enable government plan and implement basic social services such as health, education, employment, etc,” she said. Stressing that increased birth registration was needed for Nigeria to achieve her Sustainable Development Goals by 2030, Oladiji, noted that birth registration also helps government to monitor, evaluate, and report on the impact of its social and economic policies. She further said: “It will also ensure that resources are allocated to where they are really needed within different geographical areas or different groups in society.” Besides increasing funding for NPoPC and addressing the problem of shortage of manpower militating against commission’s effort in registering more children, Oladiji called for more awareness on the importance of birth registration in the rural areas through a community based approach such as house-house visit and involvement of traditional leaders. Data from 2016/2017 Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey, show that 46.8% of under 5 children are registered, a situation the stakeholders said called for concern to avoid blind planning by government. Also speaking, the Head of Department, Vital Registration, Department, NPoPC Lagos State, Mr Nwannukwu Ikechukwu, said any child who is not registered by the commission does not legally exist and cannot be planned for. According to him, birth registration comes with lots of benefits beyond just having a certificate. “It enables a person’s eligibility for healthcare, admission into school, voting, obtaining a passport, employment, marriage. “This also helps in the incidences of child abuse, child trafficking, early marriages, child labour, unlawful detention. It is critical for the children’s entire survival”, he said. Calling for massive media awareness in scaling up birth registration in Lagos State, Director of NOA in the state , Prince Waheed Ishola, stated that the agency, UNICEF and NPopC have met with religious and traditional leaders in order to achieve the set one million target before the end of 2019,adding that the target is achievable through media support. “We need to get the support of stakeholders including the media to ensure that every child born in the state have a birth certificate. The media is very critical in the upscale of birth registration. “Parents must know that if they don’t register their children, such children have not been given any form of identity,” he said. 