BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A traditional ruler in Osun state, Oba Adesoji Kehinde Oladepo, Akinrinsa 11, the Salu of Edunabon has reiterated that his appointment as the monarch of the town followed due process. The monarch argued further that the stool was no more vacant after the government pronounced him the Salu of Edunabon on November 26, 2018 and subsequently issued him a letter of appointment on November 28, 2019. He accused one Nasiru Adebayo, who contested the stool against him of parading himself as king, and also leading hoodlums to set the traditional palace ablaze maiming many people in the town. The traditional ruler, while addressing members of the Correspondents’ Chapel in Osogbo, on Thursday said aside the pronouncement of the state government, the judgement of the State High Court of May 2019, also confirmed him as the Recognised monarch of the town. Recalled that there have been series of violent activities in the sleepy town, after the demise of late Oba Elijah Omoloye Ayelade Agunbiade 1, who joined his ancestors after reigning for 24 years as Salu of Edunabon. Oba Oladepo also accused the head of the King makers, the Olosi of Edunabon, Chief Olatidoye E.Oyedokun of conspiring with Adebayo to frustrate the process that led to his emergence as the new Salu of Edunabon sabotaging the efforts of other kingmakers, who he said, followed the due process. According to the monarch, “Onw the 2nd of November 2018, the local government sent letters of invitation to all the seven candidates, from Isibomi ruling house. On the 9th of November 2018, all the stakeholders were present at the local government hall in a peaceful atmosphere. “Thereafter, all the candidates were called for manifestoes accordingly and all pledged to support whoever emerges as Salu of Edunabon. After the selection exercise, I was selected as Salu-elect of Edunabon. All the candidates rejoiced with me and signed the peace agreement to support and take Edunabon to greater height except Adebayo, who boycotted the selection process after obtaining the form of interest from the local government. “The local government authority sent all the records of selection processes to the Ministry on the 9th and 13th of November, 2018 and the same letter was also communicated to our Father, Imperial Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, the Ooni of Ife, who remains a consenting authority on the same day. “My nomination was later approved by the immediate past governor of the state, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, at the last state Executive Council meeting held on the 26th November, 2018 and I was issued appointment letter dated 28th of November, 2018. The same letter was sent to His Imperial Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, the Ife North Chieftaincy committee and Ife North Local Council Development Area Edunabon. “The appointment was also confirmed and given a consenting approval by His Imperial Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi , when the Isibomi ruling house was invited to Ooni’s palace on 29th of November, 2018. “My appointment was gazetted and published on the 6yh of December, 2018 by the Osun State Government of Nigeria No. 7 Volume 28, Notice 32 and Page 91 in the official gazette of the state of Osun. ” I proceeded on seclusion immediately I got my appointment letter as the New Salu of Edunabon as condition precedent to the throne of my forefathers. After concluding all the traditional rites on the 19th of December, 2018. “After pronouncement of my appointment as the Salu of Edunabon, Nasiru Adebayo filed a suit at the High Court of Justice, Ile-Ife challenging me alongside the state governor , Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs and the Chairman Ife North West Local Council Development Area. On the 16th of May , 2019, a judgement was delivered in my favour by his lordship Honourable Justice R.A Shiyanbola in which the case was dismissed for lack of merit”. Oba Oladepo, however, sounded a note of warning to Nasiru Adebayo and his group “to desist from fomenting trouble and abstain from any action capable of tarnishing good image of the town, saying he would no longer condone their violent actions. 