  SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA. Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday said that the Federal government is planning to set up Enterprise banks to give Nigerian youth with start ups business the credit facilities to boost their businesses. Osinbajo made this known at launching of the Ogun State Jobs Portal held at the June 12 Cultural Centre in Abeokuta, the state capital, where about 20 graduates including members of National Youth Service Corps were given automatic employment into public service in the state. The Vice President said that FG would be looking at the Bank of Industry for the creation of the Enterprise bank to give credit facilities to Nigeria graduates and youth so as to put more effort o
in improving their small businesses. Osinbajo who promised to work with the State Governor Prince Dapo Abiodun on the Jobs Portal to create more employment for graduates in the state, urged the Nigerian youth engage in Agro Allied farming, as he congratulated the 20 beneficiaries of the jobs portal into the civil service. He said “Let me begin to congratulate the new the new public servant of Ogun State who today have officially become employed in public service. But today’s opportunity is just one of the several opportunities I want to say to you is one of the major commitment of the federal government as well as the state government is to ensuring that somehow we are able to to engage the 100 or 1000 of young people who want jobs.” “When we open the portal for 1million heads we were able to employ 500,000 When you look at what people expect in their jobs you will find out that there are so many people competent. I was speaking earlier with the governor and he was talking about the agro allied industries here. Some think that farming is not that cool but what we are doing today with the Agro Allied farming set ups will make you realise that being a farmer and an Agro Allied industrialists in Nigeria is a very big deal because you can make a lot of money from it.” “So there are opportunity and we are looking on what to do wit the Bank of Industry in particular we are setting up the enterprise bank to be able to give young people who have start ups the opportunities to get facilities so that they can do more. I am from this state as you know and that his ones of the reason i have to be working with the state governor to see how we can do more empowerment, give more opportunities to young men and women in this state.” On his own part, Governor Abiodun, while unveiling the Ogun Jobs Portal thanked the Vice President for coming to witness the event, noting that the portal was a viable platform for people in the state to be given jobs opportunities. He said “As part of our administration commitment towards providing a focus and qualitative governance that we believed is fundamental to the economic growth of this state and the individual prosperity of the of Ogun State people we are also aware that people should be provided a viable platform that gives optimal job opportunities i believe a gainfully employed citizenry will also contribute in no small measure to the social-economic development of our dear state. 