 President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday assigned portfolios to the newly sworn-in ministers. The full list is below:  1. Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah, Minister of State Mines and Steel Development (Abia)  2. Muhammadu Musa Bello, Minister of Federal Capital Territory (Adamawa)  3. Sen. Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom), Minister of Niger Delta  4. Dr. Chris N. Ngige(Anambra), Minister of Labour and Employment  5. Sharon O. Ikeazor (Anambra), Minister of State Environment  6. Adamu Adamu (Bauchi), Minister of Education 7. Amb. Mariam Y. Katagum (Bauchi), Minister of State Industry, Trade and Investment 8. Timipre Sylva (Bayelsa), Minister of State Petroleum Resource 9. Sen. George Akume (Benue), Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs 10. Mustapha Baba Shehuri (Borno)
Minister of State Agriculture and Rural Development 11. Goddy Jedy – Agba (Cross River)
Minister of State Power 12. Festus Keyamo, SAN (Delta)
Minister of State Niger Delta 13. Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu (Ebonyi)
Minister of Science and Technology 14. Dr. Osagie Ehanire (Edo)
Minister of Health 15. Clement IKanade Agba (Edo)
Minister of State Budget and National Planning 16. Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo (Ekiti)
Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment 17. Geoffrey Onyeama (Enugu)
Minister of Foreign Affairs 18. Dr. Ali Isa Ibrahim Pantami (Gombe)
Minister of Communications 19. Emeka Nwajiuba (Imo)
Minister of State Education 20. Engr. Suleiman H. Adamu (Jigawa)
Minister of Water Resources 21. Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed (Kaduna)
Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning 22. Dr. Muhammad Mahmoud (Kaduna)
Minister of Environment 23. Sabo Nanono (Kano)
Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development 24. Maj. Gen. (RTD) Bashir Salihi Magashi (Kano)
Minister of Defence 25. Mr. President Mohammadu Buhari (Katsina)
Minister of Petroleum Resources 26. Sen. Hadi Sirika (Katsina)
Minister of Aviation 27. Abubakar Malami (Kebbi)
Honourable Attorney General and Minister of Justice 28. Ramatu Tijjani (Kogi)
Minister of State Federal Capital Territory 29. Lai Mohammed (Kwara)
Minister of Information and Culture 30. Gbemisola Saraki (Kwara)
Minister of State Transportation 31. Babatunde Raji Fashola SAN, (Lagos)
Minister of Works and Housing 32. Sen. Adeleke O. Mamora (Lagos)
Minister of State Health 33. Mohammed H. Abdullahi (Nasarawa)
Minister of State Science and Technology 34. Amb. Zubairu Dada (Niger)
Minister of State Foreign Affairs 35. Arch. Olamilekan Adegbite (Ogun) Minister of Mines and Steel Development 36. Sen. Tayo D. Alasoadura (Ondo) Minister of State Labour and Employment 37. Rauf Aregbesola (Osun)
Minister of Interior 38. Sunday Dare (Oyo)
Minister of Youth and Sports 39. Pauline Tallen (Plateau)
Minister of Women Affairs 40. Rotimi Amaechi (Rivers)
Minister of Transportation 41. Muhammadu Maigari Dingyadi (Sokoto)
Minister of Police Affairs 42. Eng. Saleh Mamman (Taraba)
Minister of Power 43. Abubakar D. Aliyu (Yobe)
Minister of State Works and Housing 44. Sa’adiya Umar Farouk (Zamfara)
Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development 