 By SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA The Ogun State House of Assembly on Monday, directed the suspended Chairmen of 20 Local Government Councils and 37 Local Council Development Areas of the state to submit the detailed reports on their tenure between October 2016 to May 2019 to the Assembly on or before Friday , August 16. The chairmen were suspended by the 8th legislature of the state House of Assembly headed by former Speaker of the Assembly Hon.Suraj Adekunbi. The Assembly issued the directive through its Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs led by Hon. Jemili Akingbade, while playing host to the Chairmen at the Assembly Complex at Oke- Mosan, Abeokuta, that state capital. Akingbade said that the report was expected to include the details of capital projects executed, the bidding processes of contracts awarded, revenue heads and full disclosure all revenues and expenditures since they assumed office in 2016, and must be submitted for scrutiny by the lawmakers. The Chairman of the House Committee, however assured the LG Chairmen of justice, fairness and equity in the course of the examination of petitions against them, noting that the meeting would be a platform for the local government helmsmen to disassociate themselves from any allegations levelled against them. Akingbade, however, said that the leadership of the Assembly would liaise with the appropriate government agencies to make sure that the suspended chairmen have access to relevant records required to prepare their reports, hinting that the Assembly would step up measures to resolve the issues concerning the chairmen in three weeks. Speaking, the Deputy Speaker, Oludare Kadiri, Minority Leader Ganiyu Oyedeji and a member representing Abeokuta South I, Yusuf Adejojo as well as his Ijebu North- East, Abayomi Fasuwa, maintained that the Assembly would consider the allegations on misappropriation of fund and abuse of office levelled against the chairmen amicably. They divulged that the Assembly would come up with its own findings on the reports from the chairmen in response to the petitions submitted earlier by the 8th Legislature in order to promote accountability and transparency in the running of the councils. In their separate submissions, the representative of the Chairmen from Ogun East, Barr Bayo Osikomaya and Kafaru Femi Felix; West, Mr. Obafemi Edun and Saheed Alagbe as well as that of Ogun Central Senatorial Districts, Taofeek Olabode and Mr Kunle Folarin, respectively appealed to the leadership of the Assembly to ensure speedy consideration of the issues raised as their tenure would lapse in October. 