 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO There are serious indications that the Osun Football Association is set to revive football in the state. Recall that the two major football teams in Osun; Osun United FC and Osun Babes FC, are on the edge of relegation with Osun United already relegated to division one. To ensure the fruition of his desire to revive the round leather game in the state, Chief Razak Mustapha, the new Chairman of the Football Association on Monday called on sports writers and journalists in the state to support him to reposition football in the state. The FA chairman made the call during the FA media interaction with members of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria in the state. Mustapha, who is also the Chairman of Ajiroba Ooni FC of Ile-Ife, said he recognised the importance of the media in developing and reviving football in the state, calling on journalists to work hand in hand with his management for the growth of the state football. He said; “Without press, there is no football. Without reports, nobody will know what we are doing in terms of football development or management. “We need you (journalists) and want you to work with us hand in hand to promote and move football forward in the state. “I need you to work with us to build the sport of football in the state; I want you to be stakeholder in the development of football in the state.” Mustapha reeled out the various football programmes the FA lined out for the 2019/20 season, stating that sports writers would be part of the committees that would spearhead the programmes. Yemi Aboderin, the Chairman of Osun SWAN, in his own comment, congratulated the chairman on his emergence as the FA boss, commending him for recognising journalists as critical stakeholders to football development in the state. Aboderin also applauded Mustapha for calling the meeting with the journalists , pledging the support of sports writers in the state to the course of sports development and growth. He assured the FA boss that sports journalists would assist the state FA in promoting and projecting football in the state, especially at the grassroot. The new Osun FA chairman, who was elected on July 17, after the demise of Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi, the former FA chairman, had included it in his manifesto to restore the lost glory of football in the state, which gave birth to the media parley. 