 By PRISCILLA DENNIS, MINNA Former Nigeria Military Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar has called on state Governors to grant financial autonomy to the judiciary arm in the country. Also, the governors of Niger state Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello and his Sokoto state counterpart, Alhaji Aminu Waziri Tambuwal said granting the arm independence would ensure efficient and effective service delivery. Abubakar, who made this call on Monday at the official opening ceremony of the training of Magistrats/District Court Judges in Minna said the Judiciary should be encouraged in welfare and working environment because bulk of the offices are dilapidated. He said, “I add my voice to Governor Tambuwal that
“We should encourage and try to alleviate their shortcomings and I know this will aid in the delivery and dispensing of Justice.” The elder statesman also called on Nigerians to give peace a chance saying each person has a part to play in maintaining it. He stated, “I cannot end my speech without emphasising on the need for peace in this country. Each and everyone of us must work towards achieving peace”. Earlier, the Governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Aminu Waziri Tambuwal in his speech called on State Governors in the country to grant autonomy to the judiciary arm to ensure efficient and corrupt free administration justice. He said, “to grant full autonomy, means independence, corrupt free and well articulated judiciary. Without the autonomy, the Judiciary cannot administer justice properly. Therefore, political leaders should do the needful.” On the need to build the capacity of members of the judiciary, Tambuwal stated, “it will enhance their capacity and welfare, because they do bulk of the work and most time, not given a piece of the cake. “They need to be trained to be at pal with the global best practices; if they are not trained to build their capacity, we should need expect magic from them. We must not allow them to go on strike because a sound judiciary is the last hope of the common man”. Also, the Niger state Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello declaring the training opened lamented at the state of courts, his administration inherited that are currently being renovated. He also revealed that soon, the state will provide official vehicles to the 80 Magistrates and District Court Judges in the state. Earlier, the Chief Judge of Niger state, Justice Aliyu Mayaki stated that the training program was designed to equip the Magistrates and District Court Judges new and modern ways of administering justice. 