 By VICTOR IZEKOR I so submit that the public show or demonstration by the recent multitude of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Maiduguri to denounce the alleged shortage, pilfering, stealing and diversion of food and aid supplies meant for them by camp officials be thoroughly investigated and those fund guilty made to face the full wrath of the law of the land and the maximum penalty for their sins. Beside the current matter in focus, allegations of this nature that might be hanging or would in future be discovered must be properly probed and the culprits sent to jail. The latest protest of the IDPs in Maiduguri over their dehumanisation by some camp officials is not only a public shame, but bad publicity for, especially the Federal government, the Borno State Government and other stakeholders, who, day and night, toil to see that the IDPs have the minimum comfort in the camps before final relocation to their permanent abode. The inevitable question that comes to any sane mind is what would be the response especially, of the supportive international community, who, to its chagrin discovered that its noble assistance to the IDPs was being abused or diverted? Borno State in particular should feel more embarrassed by the dubious disposition of some camp officials and others, who are collaborators in this crime, thereby frustrating in one way or the other its aims and objectives with regards to government’s Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement programme. Indeed, there have been numerous allegations that some IDPs, especially women have been raped, violated, cheated and some (though unsubstantiated) allegedly killed to destroy evidence. Concerning the crimes perpetrated against the IDPs, various categories of people are collaborators. Apart from the camp officials, some members of the security agencies, groups and individuals are culprits. For example, during the administration of the immediate past governor Kashim Shettima, now a senator of the Federal Republic, some Non-Governmental Organisations were indicted of fraud. According to former governor Shettima, “I need to open up here by saying that in the midst of credible organisations trying to help us in Borno, we have seen occasional instances of some business groups masquerading as NGOs smiling to banks on the agony of the people. I do not mean to disrespect any sincere NGO, but there are those I have seen whose only interest is to go round thousands of IDPs and figuring out sick and skinny looking infants to pose for cameras with them and upload on the social media, mainly to attract funding from concerned philanthropists abroad.” Speaking in the same vein with regards to challenges facing the NGOs in Borno State, Senator Ali Ndume from Borno South Senatorial Zone accused some NGOs of unfaithfulness in their sacred duty to mankind. According to the Senator, 80 percent of funds and resources meant for the upkeep of the IDPs are usually diverted to logistics while only 20 percent is deployed to the maintenance of the victims. The reverse, according to the Senator, is supposed to be the case.  However, some culprits in these unholy activities have been caught and dealt with. An instance was a reported case of some officials of the Borno State Government caught red-handed in the act of diverting IDPs’ foods to the markets. A Borno State High Court later sentenced two men arraigned by officials of the EFCC to two years in prison for stealing and subsequently selling bags of rice meant for the IDPs. The convicts also had to pay a fine of N2 million each for the same offence. According to the charge sheet, the two convicts colluded with a former council chairman in the state to carry out the criminal act. The former caretaker chairman, who was the first defendant, was declared “at large” throughout the hearing of the case as he had been in the custody of the military for allegedly hiding a wanted Boko Haram kingpin in his house. They were also charged for converting the sum of N1.4 million being proceeds from the sales of the 180 bags of rice stolen from the IDPs camp. They were also charged for converting the sum of N585, 000, being proceeds from the sale of yet another 65 bags of rice stolen from the same IDPs camp. As stated earlier, there were also reported cases of rape and indecent assault by some officials and members of the security agencies against some IDPs in the camps, though such have been squarely addressed and appropriate sanctioned applied. The latest protest in Maiduguri by some of the IDPs over the alleged shortchange of their food stuffs and other materials by the camp officials is a testimony to the fact that you cannot stop the cat from mousing. Stealing is becoming endemic and the norm among some unscrupulous camp officials. For them, they must reap where they did not sow. It is, therefore, imperative that the authorities, especially the Borno State Government, keeps its ears to the ground and eyes wide-open to feel the pulse all through with regard to the happenings at the various camps. The Borno State Government bears the lion’s share of all the calamities arising from the insurgency, being the epicentre of this holocaust. With over two million IDPs in various camps in addition to over 50,000 orphans and 60,000 widows to cater for, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, the new governor of Borno, must “shine his eyes” to look out for these sadists or masochists, who have made the IDPs camps a habitat of nightmare and a reminder of our recent inglorious past. These vampire must be smoked out, tried, and if found guilty, jailed.  Victorizekor is a journalist and public affairs analyst and writes at victorizekor@gmail.com 