 …as Adebutu unites members says PDP would have won the governorship election SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA. Former Vice President and Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2019 general elections, Atiku Abubakar on Tuesday, assured party faithfuls in Ogun that he would reclaim his mandate back in due course. The former Vice President, while addressing some members of the party in the state through a video clip in the presence of the National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, PDP South West leader, Eddy Olafeso and its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta, said that he was sure of victory in reclaiming his mandate back from the ruling party. Abubakar urged PDP members, especially those who had decamped to other parties including the Accord Party, Action Democratic Party, African Democratic Party and Alliance for New Nigeria among others to come together as one and unite back under the party. While lamenting that the disunity among party members in the state had made some of them decamped to other political parties and made the party lost at the governorship polls because it had no candidate to contest against the state Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun of the APC, Atiku said that it was high time the members came back in unity and support a former House of Representative member, Hon. Ladi Adebutu to be the next governor of the state. He berated Buhari’s administration over the state of insecurity, poverty, unemployment, economic hardship facing the country, saying that all the challenges would be a thing of the past when he reclaims his mandate as the winner of the 2019 presidential election. Abubakar therefore assured Nigerians of his campaign promises including creating jobs opportunity, provision of adequate security, developing power, improve ease of doing business, water infrastructure, education, women empowerment among others. He said: ” I want to use this opportunity to appreciate our party at all level for the resilient and steadfastness. I assure you all that we shall have the victory in due course in claiming the mandate given to us by the people of Nigeria.” “The key issue of my address to you all is to acknowledge the very good effort towards unifying the party in Ogun State I have been following the development in Ogun State and I can confirm that the party is indeed very happy with the unification of bringing together all family members back home under one umbrella.” “This is what we need to move our great party forward because it is only when we are united that we can be focus because it is a family delivery the people from tearing, poverty and insecurity that we are experiencing now everywhere in the country.” “I encourage you to be steadfastness in hope for a greater tomorrow for our dear country Nigeria where we believe God that the best for the country shall prevail “I want to reiterate that we remain focus on the promises made during out campaign as contained in our manifestos this promises include political restructuring of our great country such as the creation of jobs, then we reduced the current rate of unemployment we have close 16millions people unemployed which is 9million more than what we have 2014.” “We will now focus on the creation of job, reduce unemployment, provision of adequate security improve ease of doing business, developing power, water infrastructure, Agriculture, education and women empowerment. To have a better Nigeria to be bequeath to younger generations we must get Nigeria working again, we must all see that our party is united as this can only make us strong us younger.” “I must not end this address without acknowledging a very reliable leader of our party, the flag bearer of the party in Ogun State and my dear son, Honourable Ladi Adebutu, for his conserted effort towards rebuilding our party in Ogun State and the country at large. I have no doubt that he is capable of leading our party to victory in future elections. Speaking at the event, Adebutu called on members to come together in unity, assuring them of victory at the next elections in the state, saying that the party would have won at the governorship poll if it had produced a candidate for the party. 