 By SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has waded into the age-long communal crisis between the two communities of Itele and Ayetoro-budo in Ado-odo/Ota area of Ogun State in order to end their 15-year-old feud. The two communities have been at loggerheads for many years, which had led to the loss of lives and properties especially in 2004 when they both engaged in a major strife and since then all efforts to settle the disputes have proved abortive. But, Obasanjo, in a statement by his Media Aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, told the feuding parties at a meeting held at his Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library that “the war is over for good”, adding that they should bury their hatchet in the interest of the future generations. The former president, who recalled the memories of Biafra war at the meeting with the two communities, told each party to sheath their swords, noting that despite the war those of them who fought with each other still come to the round table to reconcile and end the war. He said, “Despite the war, those of us pointing guns at each other at the war front, sat down to reconcile and ended the war. That is the beauty of disagreement. Coming together again to settle and move on in the interest of peace, progress and future generations. It is time to come together in your areas. I want to appeal you all to sheath your swords.” “I know that Akanle can do it, because of my schedule…, whatever he says, it is me that is saying it. It is only a bastard that do not get angry when provoked and it is only a bastard that we beg and turn recalcitrant. I once again appeal that let the war be over.” The traditional ruler of Ayetoro, the Onibudo of Ayetoro-budo, Oba Adewunmi Adeniji Odutala and the representative of Itele, Alhaji Kazeem Ajiboye thanked the ex-president for wading into the crisis assuring him that “war is over”. Speaking, Oba Odutala, who commended the peace parley said he and his town, Ayetoro-budo had put the past behind them to allow peace to reign between the two communities for the sake of the future generations. He said, “I have come for another event here in Abeokuta and since you said you wanted to see me Sir, I told my entourage that we should come together. It is part of the sincere move that you really wanted peace in our domain” “I want to really appreciate you Sir and our highly respected Baba (Obasanjo). I promise that with this, we have no option than to put the past behind us in the interest of all that you have mentioned.” Also speaking on behalf of his community, Itele, Alhaji Ajiboye said that the crisis between the two parties had come to an end for peace and progress to reign between the two communities. He said “the war is over. We cannot but thank qour fathers, who have the interest of Itele and Ayetoro at hearts more than us. We shall put the past behind us,” he also assured.” On his own part, Chief Abraham Akanle advised the two communities to forget the past and embrace peace so as to live together in harmony He said “I was not happy at all with the situation. I knew and related very well with your fathers and I am sure that they will not be happy wherever they are now. I have said that let Ayetoro be and let Itele be. Live together in harmony. There is much positive and prosperous future if we all come together.” “This my brother has corroborated. Your coming together again will bring me joy. Next year, I will be 81. What again do I need now, but to do things that will make me be happy. I beg you my children, let us embrace peace”. The meeting ended with the composition of five representatives each from both camps to work on how compensation and rehabilitation would be achieved before the end of August 2019. The ad-hoc team, which will include security personnel is to submit its report on Thursday for final vetting and ratification by the two communities. 