 AYO ESAN, ABUJA. The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership has tasked the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission to publicly account for the looted funds recovered and property seized so far from corrupt persons in the country. Although CACOL praised both the EFCC and ICPC for the consistency and commitment they have shown, especially under the current dispensation, in tackling issues of grand sleaze and retrieval of stolen assets belonging to the public, the organisation said it’s time the two anti-graft agencies accounted to Nigerians on what they had since recovered from corrupt persons and what had become of such recovered looted funds and seized property. The Executive Chairman of the Centre, Mr. Debo Adeniran told our correspondent at the weekend that although the fight against corruption by the President Muhammadu Buhari – led Federal Government had received a boost from the exemplary performance of the two anti-graft agencies, it had become imperative for both the EFCC and the ICPC to now give account of their stewardship publicly. Adeniran said, “We would recollect that, just of recent, the Acting Chairman of EFCC, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, revealed that, as part of the efforts to curb government expenditure and corruption, the anti-graft agency has recovered over N800billion, both in hard and local currency within the last three years. As commendable as these patriotic efforts are, we reiterate the rights of Nigerians to know what has happened to the repatriated funds garnered from alleged looters. “Howbeit, some of the agencies which received the properties included: Voice of Nigeria (VON), Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate, Presidential Initiative on the North-East and Voluntary Assets and Income Declaration Scheme. It was gathered that one of the properties, a mansion located at 6, Ogun River Crescent, Maitama, had allegedly belonged to a former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh (retd.), now deceased, who was standing trial for alleged N3billion fraud. Another seized property, Briffina Hotel, Garki Area 1, was once owned by Dr. Sani Teidi, a former director of Pension Accounts, Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, who is standing trial before Justice Gabriel Kolawole of the Federal High Court, Abuja, for alleged N18.3billion fraud.” The CACOL boss further said, “We are of the opinion that having experienced a season of intensified war against public looting of our national patrimony and official debasement, it’s high time we called on the anti-graft agencies to give account of what they have achieved or how they have dispensed with recovered looted funds, properties and other valuables since the beginning of this administration till date. This would restore greater public confidence as well as enable majority of Nigerians to know the esteem those in position of power and authority hold the public.” 