   By SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA One of the victims abducted along with pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, along Ijebu-Ode axis on the Lagos- Benin expressway on their way to church’s ministers’ conference in Lagos, Chiemela Iroha, has revealed that their kidnappers were Fulani herdsmen. Iroha, son of the late popular actor, James Iroha, a.k.a Gringory, said that their abductors demanded N100m ransom from them expected to be paid by 12:00 midnight, but he noted that he was not sure whether the money was paid for their release or not. Recalled that the General Overseer of RCCG, Pastor, Enoch Adeboye had announced the kidnap of the pastors while giving a talk at the Redeem camp on Friday along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. But, while narrating their ordeal in the hands of their abductors, Iroha explained that they made them walked 30km away from the main road and also made them slept in the swamp over the night. He, explained further that their abductors were armed with fire arms and ammunition and shot for over one hour before they started to use dangerous object including sticks, knives and machete among others to torture them. According to him, their kidnappers were king of the jungle who knew every part of the forest and whose appearance and language appeared to be Fulani. He said that throughout their three days in the hands of their abductors, they were not given food and water while staying on the creeks and land, noting that respite came their way when the police helicopter hovered around the area they were kept and their kidnappers began to flee for their lives. Iroha said “Our abductors demanded that we should pay ransom before 12 midnight. The last amount they asked for was N100million. But you know I cannot disclose to you if any ransom was paid.” “The abductors humiliated and tortured us with any object they could lay their hands on, including machete, sticks, knives. They (abductors) made us walked for over 30km and we slept in the swamp through the night.” “They (abductors) have higher fire power. Sacks of bullets and they shot for more than one hour. They were comfortable in the forest. They knew the terrain well.” “They were Fulani herdsmen by their physical appearance and language spoken. We were not given food or water through three days of staying both creeks and land.” The State Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, have however, debunked the speculation that all the victims were pastors of the RCCG, saying that only one of them, Mrs Chidinma Ibelegbo is a deaconess of the church. 