 The newly inaugurated Minister of Communications, Dr. Ali Isa Pantami has charged Directors, Heads of Parastatals and staff under the Ministry to uphold the tenets of team spirit in the discharge of their duties in order to achieve the Ministry’s mandate under the current administration. He stated this during his assumption of duty at the Ministry’s Headquarters, Abuja. The Minister pointed out that Permanent Secretary and himself cannot deliver the mandate of the Ministry alone and there is the need for cooperation. In his words, “the responsibility is not mine alone and I belief the Permanent Secretary and I cannot do it alone. We must come together as brothers and sisters to deliver our mandate”. He said, “if we do what is right history would be very kind to us, if we betray the trust given to us definitely history is not going to be kind to us, because of this my message to everyone sitted here, is to sit properly and ensure that the work is done (the work must be done), he stressed. Pantami reiterated that, the Ministry and its agencies must work as a team and he would not allow any division to take place. “We must be united because all of us are Nigerians and Nigerians must be treated equally.” He stated. He urged the agencies to work with the mandate that established them and noted the role the Ministry should play as supervisory Ministry adding that each and everyone in the Ministry would be motivated to deliver on the mandate. In his welcome address, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Communications, Mr. Musa Istifanus stated that the Ministry can help government to pull out 50 million people out of 100 million people living below the poverty line within 36 months and to impact on the lives of those living in Nigerian villages. According to him, “we are doing away with physical files and adopting electronic files by the end of this October, the Ministry would no longer be carrying physical files. Any letters coming to the Ministry would be scan and responded within 48 hours, this will serve as example for other Ministries to follow. 