 AYO ESAN, ABUJA. The pan Yoruba Socio-cultural youth group, Yoruba Youth Forum, has accused President Muhammadu Buhari of handling the problem of insecurity in the country with levity. The YYF said that the response of the Federal Government to the deteriorating security situation in the country showed that the Buhari administration was not serious in tackling the problem of insecurity pervading the country. The President of the YYF, Comrade Abiodun Olusegun Bolarinwa, told our correspondent in a chat at the weekend that the Buhari – led Federal Government had failed to demonstrate genuine interest in combating the worsening spate of insecurity, which had led to the continuous loss of lives across the country. Bolarinwa expressed the group’s dissatisfaction with the Buhari government’s handling of the insecurity problem which had continued to claim the lives of innocent Nigerians. “The attitude of Buhari’s Presidency to spate of killings in the country shows that lives of
Nigerians are no longer important,” the YYF president said. He also said that the recent clash between the police and the members of the Shi’ite Movement in Abuja showed that the Buhari government had a hidden agenda for refusing to obey earlier court rulings granting bail to the leader of the group, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky. The YYF leader argued that it was not a crime for the members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria to protest the leader’s long detention since the government refused to obey court orders in the first place. Bolarinwa wondered what the President Buhari-led administration had gained in detaining El-Zakzaky, while innocent Nigeria were been killed over the matter. He reminded President Buhari that good governance include fairness and social justice as well as maintenance of law and order. “Good government must also guarantee security of lives and properties which the present administration has failed to do,” the YYF leader said. Bolarinwa condoled with the family members of the police officer killed during the last clash between the police and the Shi’ites in Abuja, DCP Usman Umar, and the NYSC member serving with the Channels Television, who also lost his life in the same incident. He prayed for the families of the deceased persons, stressing that God would give them the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. The YYF leader also charged all Yoruba leaders and traditional rulers not to relax over the problem of insecurity, just as he expressed the YYF’s appreciation to the Alafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, and former president Olusegun Obasanjo for telling the whole world the truth about the security situation in the country through their open letters to President Buhari. 