  By Agnes Igwe The Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi has declared the readiness of the state in bringing the era of medical tourism among well-to-do Nigerians in developed countries to an end through well trained medical personnel produced in the state. Governor Umahi, represented by the Secretary to state government, Dr Ugbala Kenneth, made the disclosure during Oath taking\Induction ceremony of 18th batch physicians produced from the Ebonyi State University College of Medicine, Abakaliki. The governor charged the 55 new set of medical doctors to religiously abide by terms of their induction oath, which he said, would encourage medical tourism to the state as government is doing all within its power to ensure the state gets best equipped teaching hospital in Nigeria. He reiterated the commitment of the state government in ensuring that the state has the best medical school in Nigeria as he pledged to look into request of the college for the provision of students buses as well as utility vehicles for principal officers. The University’s Vice chancellor, Prof Chigozie Ogbu, congratulated the grandaunts as he challenged them to go into the world and make the school proud by being medical doctors of very high repute. Speaking in the same development, the state Commissioner for Health, Dr Daniel Umezuruike and the Chief Medical Director of Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki Dr Emeka Onweogah advised the doctors to strive to further their studies to be knowledgeable enough in their areas of specialization and shun attitude of doing houseman jobs at multiple places. The CMD, who threatened not to spare them if they play with patients’ lives, advised parents not to leave family responsibilities for the new doctors to avoid involving in illegal dealings so as to make ends meet. Conducting the Induction\Oath taking ceremony, the Registrar of Council, T.A.B. Sanusi called for synergy between the college and university, as he urged the newly inducted doctors to give back to the institution by doing remarkable things and being outstanding in practice. He advised the college management to engage outstanding brains among the young doctors as lecturer 2 to avoid losing them. He warned that despite the oath taken, if the young doctors get themselves involved in any form of anomaly, he\she shall be shown the way out. Sanusi urged the young doctors to print their licences and provisional registration to practice from their e – platform and promised that after one year of supervision, if they are not found wanting they shall be fully registered. In support of hard work and excellence Dr Onweogah, on behalf of AEFUTHA, offered automatic houseman job opportunities to the first ten best graduating doctors and the sum of N100,000 to best among them, Igwilo Martha . 