 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola on Thursday revealed how members of the National Youth Service Corps can make their service year successful. The Governor said corps members should abstain from all forms of social vices to save and protect their future. The governor made this known at the NYSC permanent Orientation Camp located in Ede, during the swearing-in ceremony of 1800, 2019 Batch B Stream II prospective corps members posted to the state. According to him, vices such as drug abuse, advance fee fraud, kidnapping, robbery and others are capable of killing their future aspirations and goals. The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mr Wole Oyebamiji, said the celebration of corps members is a worthy event, going by their significant roles in their place of primary assignment. Oyetola said the NYSC had been grooming and molding graduate youths to fit in with the aspirations and blueprint of the nation towards total emancipation and economic expansion, saying the youths constitute the most productive segment of the population and society. “I want you to complement the gesture of NYSC and the government by being good ambassadors and advocates of peaceful coexistence and corporate existence of our nation. “I want you to comport yourselves in the most noble way worthy of your calling into the national service; remember that you are the greatest asset of our nation. “As future leaders and key determinants of the peace and stability of our nation, I want you to channel your energy, vigour and drive towards the achievements of lofty ideals and aspirations and abstain from vices. “Social vices are capable of undermining your future and hinder you from achieving your goals”, Oyetola said. Speaking earlier, the state coordinator of NYSC, Mr Adegoke Adewale, in his welcome address congratulated the corps members on the successful completion of their studies from various institutions and their mobilisation for national service. He advised them to maximally use the opportunity of national service to explore the rich culture of their host communities and learn the tenets of diversity of Nigeria. Adewale also charged them to participate in the camp activities, stressing that their success during the service year would be determined, to a large extent, through internalising the ideals of the scheme which they would be exposed to during the course of their orientation exercise. 