 By Segun Showunmi And when both sides had stated their positions in the biblical story involving two women with one living and one dead child, the Judge, King Solomon, being a wise, God fearing judge, gave a sound judgment, which has become a reference of wisdom till date. I have had cause to reflect on the difference between a lawyer who goes on to become a judge and one who goes on to become a learned silk. I am convinced that the difference is in the historical citations of the judgements that can grant a judge the reckoning of legends, for the authorities will be cited for ever. If the judges will consider the case before them, the arguments and the detailed efforts of the counsels to the judex in the 2019 presidential election tribunal between Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party, and Mohammadu/Mohamed/Mohammodu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress, in the expected manner, then Nigerians should warm up for a sound judgement. Lest I forget, pardon my writing many versions of the President’s name. There is clearly an identification crisis in determining who exactly was presented in the 2019 elections, given that all documents on eligibility and WAEC certificates carry too many different names. This has created an identity crisis, bordering on either identity theft or multiple personalities masquerading as one individual in a curious twist that has left the question of eligibility sticking out like a sore thumb. One just needs to read the written closing remarks as presented and filed at the presidential election tribunal to know that as judgement was easy for King Solomon, so it ought to be for the panel of judges. Like in the Solomonic story, the facts speak for themselves. Atiku Abubakar of the PDP and his legal team have proven beyond reasonable doubt the substance of their case and their prayers ought to be granted. No court should allow anyone profit from their indolence, for clearly, Buhari’s legal team did not defend their case or provide answers to the issues under contention. History beckons. Truly, the Judiciary is before the court of both public opinion and their conscience. 