The 2019 Taraba State governorship election has been concluded, leaving many questions unanswered. There is no doubt that the people of Taraba came out and exercised their civic franchise, but how effective was their vote as reflected in the outcome of the election declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission?  That declaration actually led to the emergence of the Peoples Democratic Party as the winner of the election that saw Darius Ishaiku emerge as the Governor-elect.  A victory that poses so many questions in Taraba State’s democratic evolution.
We surely do not need anybody to tell us that somewhere, things are not right. If not,what would have warranted a curfew? If truly democracy is meant to flourish unhindered, the people of Taraba ought to be allowed to celebrate the emergence of a leader they have elected at the polls. We all know a curfew is imposed in Taraba when the people are supposed to be happy for having someone they have voted for declared the winner of the election. Taraba is for all of us; we should put that into consideration and condition our minds to that. No one among us is an alien, yet up till now, we were made to think and act as we are not one and the same people that made up Taraba State.
The just concluded governorship election, is no doubt a new phase in the collective aspiration of making Taraba State a developed and prosperous state. But events during and after the elections proved to the contrary. These were deduced from the election reports coming out from the observers, both foreign and domestic. Definitely, Africans ought to know that democracy is meant to be guided by the popular will of the people, as they are the determining factor on who govern them or not. We must collectively know what we want and who will give us those things that we want, not to be guided by primordial sentiment as  preached to us by some misguided leaders who capitalised on our ignorance for their personal gains at the expense of our collective development as a civilised people in an era of information technology at our finger tips.
Reflectively, ‘The African Union, Economic, Social and Cultural Council, (AU ECOSOCC) Nigerian chapter, that observed the governorship and State House of Assembly elections in Taraba State last week condemned the intimidation and alleged assault on party agents in some local government areas of the state. The Nigeria representative of AU ECOSOCC, Dr Tunji Asaolu, confirmed this much.
Similarly, one of the governorship contestants is seen in an interview complaining of irregularities at some local governments in the state. The question here is: for how long shall we take democracy and leadership contest as a do or die affair, promoting violence, indiscipline, lies and deceit.
All these are not a mere story; rather, they are the actual happenings at the fields. Being an active participant, and, as a leader with futuristic vision to advance Taraba State and Nigeria as whole, I was a living witness to the charade that was an election. It behoves on me to write and appeal to our senses; let us begin to see who really has our collective advancement in his/her heart. Let us reflect  and not act upon sentiments and reactive stance. Let us use our common sense, that  is guided purely by logic devoid of any stereotype by any form.
In conclusion, democracy is our state should be seen as a uniting factor, not as a means to divide us, and take us far away from our senses and our collective logic of living together. 2019 elections in Taraba State raised so many questions that need answers. You and I definitely know that the situation was so. INEC, we hope, in the future will employ technology in our voting processes, as simple as using our fingerprints and smart phones to vote. Surely, advancing our voting processes will address all these irregularities: rigging, thuggery, and violence, resulting in curfews and loss of life. Mohammed, a public affairs analyst, writes from Taraba 