All Progressives Congress National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has commiserated with the families of victims of Wednesday’s collapse of a building in Ita-Faji, Lagos Island, saying the incident was tragic. The former Lagos governor said the government must now ensure adequate treatment for rescued victims. He also called on Lagosians to donate blood to the rescued victims. In a condolence message on Thursday to the families of the victims, the APC leader said the school children lost to the building collapse did not deserve to die the way they did. He prayed for the repose of the souls of the innocent kids. He said the government must fast-track demolition arrangement once a building is discovered to be weak and deserving of demolition to save lives. In the statement signed by his Media Adviser Tunde Rahman, Asiwaju Tinubu said: “The building collapse in Ita-Faji, Lagos Island on Wednesday is a tragic occurrence. I commiserate with the families of those kids who lost their precious lives. “They do not deserve to die the way they did. May God comfort their families and grant repose of the souls of those young ones. Government must now ensure adequate medical treatment for the rescued victims. “I appeal to Lagosians to voluntarily donate blood not only to victims who urgently require blood but also to improve our blood bank in the state. While we await the inquiry into the circumstances that led to the incident, we must all support government’s intervention efforts. “The Lagos State Material Testing Laboratory for buildings must be strengthened and the officers must do their work. Government’s laid down regulations on building construction and maintenance must be faithfully respected and enforced. To mobilize support for these regulations, Community Development Associations need to come to government’s aid. “If after the collapsed building had been found to be weak and marked for demolition, everybody had done what was required of them, perhaps this terrible incident would have been averted. “On its part, the government must fast-track demolition arrangements once a building is discovered to be weak and deserving of being pulled down to save lives. “Above all, we must all take appropriate lessons and learn from this sad incident.” 