Wife of the  All Progressives Congress Governorship Candidate in Ogun State,  Mrs Bamidele Abiodun,  has called on Nigeria women to rise and participate more in the nation’s politics in order to move the country forward. Mrs Abiodun made this known at the market square of Isara Remo in Remo North local government area of the state while campaigning for the people to vote ifor her husband, Prince Dapo Abiodun as the governor of the state. The wife of the APC gubernatorial candidate, who lamented that women in the country had taken the back seat in the country’s politics, said  it was high time they rose and fully join partisan politics. She however decried the little role given to the women in politics, saying she found it worrisome that men had taken the larger part in politics, urging them to go out and participate in politics. According to her, women were always reluctant to participate and make firm decision in politics,  noting that politics should not be left for men alone because they are the head of the family, adding that women should also participate in electing those who would shape the future of their children. She therefore urged them to pick up their Permanent Voters Cards to support and vote for her husband and his deputy, Alhaja Nosimot Salako Oyedele, saying  the APC Candidate would put their interest and that of their children first if voted as the governor of the state in Saturday’s governorship election. Mrs Abiodun said, ” I charge you all to pick your PVC on Saturday, do not stay at home. It is less tasking but criminal to deny your children a bright future they deserve by voting the right candidate. Performing your civil responsibilities dutifully, is another form of caring for their future. Do not leave that alone for our men.” According to her, ’’We are here today to present Prince Dapo Abiodun, the true promise keeper who loves his people. I beseech you to vote APC, support and vote Prince Dapo Abiodun. Help us canvass support to our daddies at home. With Dapo Abiodun as Governor, and Alhaja Noimot Salako-Oyedele as Deputy Governor, women will not be relegated to the background. He will run an all inclusive government that will put women interest at front burner.” Meanwhile, Mrs Abiodun has organised a free medical outreach for people tagged,  ” Iwosan Ofe  Labule’ at the Catholic Church at Ilisan, where both old and young benefited immensely. She also organised a student training programme for the students and youth on Study Apps Centre. 