The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Osun State, Ademola Adeleke, has told the All Progressives Congress, APC, and Governor Gboyega Oyetola that anti-people demonstration cannot sustain a stolen mandate. Adeleke, who defeated APC’s Oyetola in the Osun State Election Tribunal last week, stated this through his Campaign Organisation. A statement sent to media houses on Wednesday by the Adeleke campaign organization said, “The handful of paid demonstrators rallying against the judgement restoring the stolen mandate cannot save Gboyega Oyetola and his band of usurpers.” This was in reaction to about 100 or so demonstrators who drummed support for Oyetola earlier in the week. Adeleke affirmed that the court judgement restoring his mandate “is valid and lawful in law and the constitution as it flows from evidence and cross examinations throughout the duration of the hearing.” He maintained that “the usurpers are jittery and desperate over the restoration of people’s mandate. “We note with confidence in God and people that the judgement is God given based on truth and dispassiohate interpretation of the law and the constitution. “We affirm that the judgement restored the will of the people as openly expressed on September 22 ,2018.The mobilisation of exploited O-Yes members to rally against a judgement that sets Osun people free from slave holders is reprehensible and a cowardly attempt to hoodwink the people. “We note that that there is nothing within the judgement that is not covered by law and the constitution.The ruling to nullify the rerun ,the cancellation of results of some polling units and the declaration of Ademola Adleke as the winner are all provided for by provisions of INEC Electoral guidelines, Electoral Act, the constitution of the Federal Republic and extant judgements of various courts in the land. “The demonstration is therefore the historic last kick of a dying horse; it is a manifestation of desperation and panic in the midst of ultimate defeat. We urge our teaming supporters to remain peaceful and law abiding.Our team is prepared to pursue this matter until ultimate judgement is granted planting the people’s Governor on the seat at Abere Government House,” the statement read. The campaign organization also thanked the people of Osun state for their demonstration of love and support since the judgement was declared, even as it called for the maintenance of peace and order even in the face of provocations. 