Recently, the convoy of Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State, on campaign to Gamboru Ngala,  was attacked by suspected members of Boko Haram’s Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) faction. Though of recent, the terrorist’s attacks have been sporadic in various parts of the state and many wondered why Gov. Shettima did not use the bullet proof cars or vehicles in the Government House when he was fully aware that Gamboru Ngala axis of the state is part of the hot beds of the insurgents. The ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attack which, according to the terror group,  claimed 42 lives, though the official report by the government stated that three lives were lost. No doubt, the extent of killings and alleged abduction of some members of the entourage is yet to be ascertained, Gov. Shettima had already paid condolence visit to the families of those who lost their lives, including a soldier.
Now, Gov. Shettima has pointed out that he was not yet done as he would go back to Gamboru Ngala again for further campaign and the issue of whether he would make use of the bullet proof cars cropped up again.
That there are two bullet proof cars in the Maiduguri Government House is not in dispute. The contention is the refusal of Shettima to make use of them in spite of the security challenges Borno has found itself. There is the need at this point to clarify some issues to put things in proper perspective. The first question is: Did Shettima inherit the bullet proof cars from his predecessor? If he did, were the cars there for use or to serve as museum piece for his tenure? Certainly, they are there for a purpose and the purpose is for use. The second question is: Were the bullet proof cars bought during the tenure of Gov. Shettima? Certainly, if they were bought during his tenure, they are meant for a purpose and the purpose centres on the security of the Governor or anyone that uses it. What this means is that the cars must be allowed to do the assignment they were designed for.
Asked why he declined the use of the bullet proof vehicles attached to the Government House, Maiduguri, Gov. Shettima was reported to have said, “it is morally wrong for him as the leader of his convoy’s delegation to be driving in bullet proof cars while his aides and associates who travel because of him, drive in ordinary vehicles.” He is equally said to have pointed out, that  “it is not act of leadership” and he also feels that “driving in bullet proof cars can send panic into the minds of his aides and associates in his
convoy.”
Apart from refusing to use the bullet proof cars, there are reported cases of Gov. Shettima ignoring security advice in some assignments, especially where his safety is involved. For example, immediately after the news of the abduction of the Chibok School girls broke, the governor wanted, in no time, to be in Chibok town to see things for himself and visit the parents of the girls. He was persuaded by the security to tarry a while for the dust to settle. He was advised on the possible consequences of his rush to Chibok. Behold, the falcon did not hear the falconer as, before the shout of Jack Robinson, Shettima was already Chibok bound. The governor admitted later on arrival from Chibok that most of his commissioners and aides that ought to accompany him on the journey abandoned him at the moment of departure. According to him, some absconded without biding him farewell while others refused further communication with him at the critical moment to avoid being part of the team to Chibok. According to Gov. Shettima, it was Senator Ali Ndume of the Borno South Senatorial Zone and of the Peoples Democratic Party that accompanied him to Chibok. Similarly, there was a recent attack on Monguno by the insurgents while thousands of people fled the town. In the heat of this, the governor insisted on visiting the town in spite of security advice to allow the dust to settle before embarking on such a visit.
Three years back, Gov. Shettima was away to London on official duty. The following day on arrival, he got a message that the Boko Haram insurgents had concluded arrangement to attack Maiduguri in the next two days and hoist their flag at the Government House after the capture of the state capital. Without biding his host abroad farewell, Shettima flew into Abuja and then to Maiduguri. He immediately made a broadcast on arrival in Maiduguri to diffuse tension and palpable anxiety that was in the air surrounding the expected attack of the insurgents. After the broadcast, the governor went round some parts of the state capital, possibly to let them know that he was around and on ground. An aide to Shettima further revealed that, while in London, Kashim was advised to stay behind, but he refused, pointing out that the governor made it clear to his close aides and some members of his family that he was prepared to die with his people than to watch aimlessly for the insurgents to kill and abduct them. Victor Izekor, a journalist and public affairs analyst, writes at victorizekor@gmail.com 