Apparently disgusted with the rampant killings of innocent people in the state, Zamfara state Governor, Alhaji Abdul Aziz Yari, has spit fire last Saturday during a condolence visit to Kawaye village of Anka local government area where 15 people were killed, several others kidnapped and millions of Naira destroyed by the bandits. The bandits who attacked the village had kidnapped the village head and his wife as well as several other people of the village, promising to release the abducted people if the state government could sign a peace accord with them. Addressing the people of the village during the condolence visit, Governor Yari said his government would not reconcile with the bandits as they (bandits)  requested, adding that, his government was going to fight them squarely wherever they are. He said that the issue of reconciliation and signing a peace accord with the bandits as earlier arranged was no longer practicable since the bandits were not ready to reform. The Governor declared that, the government had now taken stringent measures to ensure that all the bandits in the state were hunted and killed, adding that “we are going to avenge the killings of our people since the hoodlums were not ready to stop their nefarious activities”. He maintained that he had discussed the issue with the President adding that, the operation would very soon commence in all the nooks and crannies of the state where adequate security would be deployed in all the hideouts of the bandits. He assured the people of Kawaye village that his government would very soon compensate them for whatever damage done to them by the bandits and also assured them that the blood of their people who were killed would not go in vain. He directed the army and police to deploy more personnel to the village in order to give the villagers adequate security so that the bandits did not return to the village. Speaking at the occasion, the Emir of Anka, Alhaji Attahiru Mohammed Ahmad, commended the Governor for the efforts his administration has been putting in place towards security problems, urging the Governor not to relent in this direction. The Emir also used the occasion to call on his subjects to always be security conscious and report any suspicious character to the security operatives for necessary action. Meanwhile, the village head , his wife and some other people kidnapped by the bandits on the day they attacked the village are still in captivity, as the hoodlums are requesting for a reconciliation with the state government before they release the abducted people. 