 …as Amosun delivers polling units for Akinlade  …Abiodun, Kashamu win at their polling units . The gubernatorial candidate of the Allied People’s Movement in Ogun Hon. Adekunle Akinlade has won at the former President Olusegun Obasanjo’ polling unit 22,  ward 11 of Olosumu Compound in Abeokuta local government area of the state. Akinlade polled 72 against his closest rival, Prince Dapo Abiodun, the governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress who scored 54, while the candidate of the African Democratic Congress, Gboyega Isiaka polled 36. Obasanjo was said to have voted at his polling unit this morning at about 10:03am, but made not comment about the election when journalists approached him. Similarly, Akinlade also won at his  polling unit 22, Ward 3 at Agosasa in Ipokia local government area of the state with 343 votes against his APC closest rival Abiodun who scored 44, while Isiaka of ADC polled 04. Similarly, the State Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun also delivered his polling unit 8, ward 6 at Itagbagban in Abeokuta North local government area for Akinlade’s APM who polled 70 to defeat his main rival Avoiding of APC who scored 31 as ADC polled 14 while PDP polled O. Meanwhile the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Prince Dapo Abiodun won his ward 3 unit 2 with 240 votes , while APM scored 75 and PDP scored 5 votes. Abiodun who voted at Ita-Osayin in ikenne local government area described the process as impressive and great urging the electorate to continue to uphold democracy. He said “I feel very great about the whole exercise. I haven’t  seen the situation  of things  in other polling  units  but I am satisfy with the process at this polling  unit. “My advice is that the process should  be democratic. They should  not try to  rig the election, people  should  not create violence. We should  respect our democracy.” Relatedly, the gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Buruji Kashamu won his polling unit scoring 310 to defeat his closest rival Hon. Akinlade of APM who polled 42 while Abiodun of APC scored 20. Also the governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party, Dimeji Bankole has lost at his polling unit 6 ward 10 in Abeokuta south local government area with 61 votes  to APM’s candidate, Akinlade  who polled 94. While APC scored 36, ADC polled 15 and PDP scored 9. 