The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has presented the certificate of return to the All Progressive Congress (APC) governor-elect in Ogun, Prince Dapo  Abiodun in the March 9 governorship election in the state. This is just agency also presented certificates to the deputy governor-elected, Alhaja Noimot Salako and lawmakers who won the State House of Assembly elections in the state. INEC’s National Commissioner, in charge of Ogun, Ondo and Lagos, Mr Adekunle Ogunmola, while presenting the certificate to Abiodun on Thursday, urged him to be magnanimous, honest and exhibit a high level of integrity with the people of the state. Ogunmola who spoke at the presentation of certificates of return to Governor-elect, Deputy Governor elected and the members of the State House of Assembly held at INEC’s Headquarters in Abeokuta, the state capital, said that if Abiodun perform well, the people won’t hesitate to vote him in again. He said” The governor-elect I want to say that there is need for you to be magnanimous with people there is need for you to be honest and exhibit high level integrity and to be committed to the yearnings and aspirations of the peoples of Ogunsate.” “The chairman had admonished on the need to be magnanimous. We need the cooperation of everybody in keeping democracy. If you perform well people will not think twice before recalling you, and if you don’t perform well they will find a way to keep you out” he added. The Resident Electoral Commissioner, Prof. Abdulganiyi Raji  also charged the  governor-elect to be magnanimous and put aside the politics of hatred as well endeavour to fulfill his electoral promises he made to the people of the state during his campaign. On his own part, Abiodun, who in company of his deputy,  Salako, received his certificate,  however promised to be free and fair and even magnanimous with the people of the state as well as meeting their yearnings and aspirations. “I solemnly swear that the administration will be fair, just and equitable and inclusive a government that truly earns and deserve confidence and the trust of it citizens through a transparent and accountable leadership,focus and political government that create enabling environment for an enduring economic development and individual prosperity of Ogun people. Indeed a government for all and not few.” he noted The Governor-elect therefore thanked President Muhammadu Buhari, the National leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and  members of the National and State leadership of the party and the people of the state for supporting and voting him as the governor-elect in the state 