The Joint Admission Matriculation Board has said 78 centres in Lagos are ready to conduct the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. The Lagos JAMB coordinator said this in an interview at the matriculation ceremony of fresh students of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Yaba. The Cordinator, Mr. Babatunde Bamisoye,  disclosed that the body had visited the 78 accredited centres and they are technically fit to conduct the examination starting from April 11. He said, “As far as Lagos State is concerned, we have about 78 accredited centres and all these centres are ready. We have gone out to visit these centres and we are technically fit in Lagos State for the exam.” He noted that all complaints from candidates had been solved and few they couldn’t were sent to the headquarters for proper attention. “The Lagos office of the Board had also been able to resolve complaints brought before it by intending candidates as the Servicom and Public Relations division of the board was dedicated to treat such cases. “Complaints by candidates have been solved once lodged; in cases where we are unable to solve it locally we refer it online for necessary attention,” he stated. The Coordinator therefore warned candidates not to bring in any of the banned equipment like glasses, scientific wrist watch as necessary sanctions will be taken. “There are certain things candidates are not allowed to bring in, they are clearly stated, everyone should be conscious of it and we are admonishing the candidates to desist from brining such materials to the premises. “The Chief Executive, Prof. Is’haq Oloyede has said it that whosoever is cut will be sanctioned. “Those with special cases like recommended eye glasses are understandable besides that no one should come in with such things out listed,” he said. He further advised parents to stay away from the centers as they are not allowed around the centers. “As far as JAMB exam is concerned, we do not allow parents to come into the premises of the centers. My advice to parents is that they should keep off because their coming has no value rather it may hinder the success of the exam. “Parent need only to get the students prepared with transport money.  Allow them to go to their centers and return home,” he said. 