The Afenifere Renewal Group( ARG), has dispelled insinuation by the opposition parties that the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, President Muhammadu Buhari won the February 23 presidential election via fraudulent means. The pan Yoruba socio-cultural and political organisation said the culture of integrity and honesty that had been the brand of President Buhari actually won the election for him. The Peoples Democratic Party had last week rejected the results of the fiercely contested election, branding it a sham and fraught with irregularities, which it claimed brought about Buhari’s victory. A statement by ARG’s Publicity Secretary, Ekiti Chapter, Prince Michael Ogungbemi, in Ado Ekiti, on Monday, urged the candidate of the PDP and major opponent in the election, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, to accept defeat and shelve the idea of resorting to litigation to challenge the outcome. “Though, the ARG and APC knew that the proposed petition against Buhari will fail. But going to court is not patriotic because it will constitute distraction to governance”. On the winning of the three senatorial and six House of Representatives seats in Ekiti by the All Progressives Congress (APC), ARG hinged the feat on Governor Kayode Fayemi’s superlative performances in office within the last four months. The group said Fayemi has been able to bring expertise and experience to government to correct the ills perpetrated by the immediate past government in the areas of education, social investment policy and infrastructure. “We congratulate President Buhari, who had once again enjoyed the legitimate mandate of Nigerian people in recognition of his honesty and integrity. “Also, we congratulate all Senators-elect and House of Representatives members-elect into the 9th Assembly. We look forward to having a season of robust, responsible and purposeful legislation, as well as non-rancorous and harmonious relationship between the Executive and Legislature to engender good governance. ” The last few years, the legislature has posed to be more of a thorn in the flesh of the executive, rather than partners in progress and this largely accounted for the slow pace of developmental programmes of President Buhari. “For the next four years, Nigerians expected the two arms to cohabit mutually to make Nigeria great in all spheres. We need partnership that will turn around the fortunes of Nigerians for better and not egoistic posture that will derail governance and bring Nigeria to a stalemate”, the statement said. ARG applauded Fayemi for presenting a veritable atmosphere for free , fair and credible polls as observed by both local and international election observers. “We appreciate the Ekiti electorates for their peaceful conduct, comportment and cooperation with the electoral body, INEC and security operatives while exercising their constitutional franchise. ” We are using this opportunity to implore all sons and daughters of Ekiti to vote massively for APC candidates in the forthcoming election into the Ekiti State House of Assembly on Saturday, March 9, 2019 to consolidate and reinforce the vision of our Omoluabi and hardworking Governor to reclaim our land and restore our values in Ekiti. “We want to encourage the security agencies to work hard to maintain law and order and create a peaceful environment for Nigerians to perform their civic duties and responsibilities”.  