Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday assured residents of Ogun State not to panic about the security of their lives and property in the forthcoming Governorship and House of Assembly elections in the state. Osinbajo, who thanked the people for voting in President Muhammadu Buhari, also urged the people to troop out en masse on Saturday and vote for the candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the state, Prince Dapo Abiodun. He made the disclosure at the campaign rally of Abiodun in Abeokuta South Local Government Area of the state shortly after visiting the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo at his palace. The vice president, while sounding a note of warning to political thugs in the state to desist from fomenting violence during the election, admonished the people not to allay any fear, saying the Federal Government was in charge of the security to secure  their lives and properties during Saturday’s election. He said, ” I want to thank you for voting in President Muhammadu Buhari and I,  your son, again to be in Abuja. On Saturday, all of us should come out and vote and we should call out everybody to come and vote for Dapo Abiodun. “Let your mind be at rest about security, the issue of security is within the control of the Federal Government. We shall secure our people very well. There won’t be any trouble, we will be in charge of the security so that everybody can come out and vote. So, let your mind be at peace.” Also speaking, a former governor of the state, Aremo Olusegun Osoba, who insisted that there would be no security problems in the state, also asked the people to vote for Abiodun and not to sell their conscience despite the money given to them by other political parties. “Your money that was stolen, take it back from them on Saturday and vote for Abiodun. There is no problem on security,” he said. On his part, Abiodun however appealed to the people to come out and vote for him massively in the governorship election on  Saturday. 