The Woman Leader of Sanwoolu Campaign Organization, Mrs Ola Williams aka Iron Lady, has won all the 16 polling units in Ward C1, Lagos Island for the All Progressives Congress, APC in the just concluded governorship and House of Assembly elections.This is even as members of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, instigated violence following the outcome of the exercise, which saw the APC win the polls in the area. Williams, who led the  APC supporters to win the sixteen polling units in ward C1, Lagos Island local government, defeated the opposition PDP with a wide margin in all the polling units in the area. In the elections monitored by our correspondent, all APC candidates  contesting the governorship and State House Assembly elections, defeated PDP,  candidates in landslide victory.The PDP supporters following the outcome, resorted to violence by attempting to damage the result sheet with water, an effort that was however prevented by the APC members. Mrs Williams had during the electioneering, aggressively mobilised voters for the reelection of President Muhammadu Buhari and all the APC candidates in the National Assembly poll.Trouble started when APC supporters began jubilations after the party governorship candidate Babajide Sanwoolu won with landslide results in the polling unit Oju Olokun A, Ward C1 where Sanwo-Olu Woman Leader voted. APC won the polling unit by 236 votes as against 34 polled by the PDP in the governorship election.It was gathered that PDP supporters, who were infuriated by the jubilant APC members, launched attacks on the APC. The APC leader, Mrs Williams, who was assaulted with other members, most of whom were females, said on several occasions attacks by the opposition PDP had been recorded in the area. Some of the suspects who attacked the APC members, our correspondent gathered, were two sons of a community leader, Baba Oloye. The two sons  fingered were Taiye and Idowu. Speaking to journalists following the attack, Williams, who expressed satisfaction in the outcome of the elections, called on appropriate authorities to bring the perpetrators to book. “We defeated them (PDP) completely; PDP does not have acceptability in this ward and Lagos Island local government,” she declared. “This is just why they attacked us. They had wanted to pour water on the result sheets, but we stopped them. And when they couldn’t achieve that aim, they physically attacked us by hitting us with iron and sticks. We are all women, wives and mothers and these children did this to us. They must pay for this.”Following the violence, the area was thrown into chaos. The situation however was quelled by soldiers who swiftly moved in, though no arrest was made. The APC Woman Leader further advised APC supporters to be steadfast, while commending the voters for conducting themselves in a peaceful manner during the exercise.Williams expressed satisfaction in the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, for the conduct of the polls, which she described as free fair and credible 