Dearth of intellectualism in politics, as well as failure of political parties to design developmental manifestos that could propel national advancement have been linked to the economic hardship  being experienced in the country.
This observation was made by the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Zamfara State, Alhaji Bello Matawallen Maradun, during a manifesto forum organised by the Trade Union Congress (TUC) under the leadership of Comrade Mansur Mustafa Kaura in Gusau recently.
The PDP candidate observed that many politicians wished to be elected to offices for which they were contesting but when elected, they would not perform well because they failed to design credible manifestos or  templates.
He stated that he designed a good manifesto preparatory to the governorship election in the state, saying as a candidate, “I have a very good blueprint for the rapid development of my state”.
Alhaji Bello listed the welfare of the people of the state, especially the civil servants whom, he said were the engine of progress, as paramount saying the  N30,000 minimum wage being demanded should be paid.
Among others, he said the education sector, which had already been relegated to the background, should be accorded premium position.
Alhaji Bello, who is a retired classroom teacher, stated the need to concentrate  on the provision of instructional materials for teaching and learning especially in primary and post primary schools in the state.
He also harped on the need to attract learners to education through disbursement of scholarships to indigent students in the country as well as abroad.
On agriculture, Alhaji Bello said adequate provision of farming implements and other necessary facilities that would boost farming activities in the state were necessary noting that supply of fertiliser, as well as availability of interest-free loans to farmers could guarantee food security and promote revenue earnings in the state.
The PDP governorship candidate stressed that establishmemt of industries and rehabilitation of moribund facilities would add value to the dying economy.
Specifically citing the case of Gusau Textile Industry that had, for long been shut down, he said proactive measures must be taken to leapfrog the state out of the current state of backwardness. 