The National Identity Management Commission and the Nigerian Immigration Service have resolved to commence enforcement of the National Identification Number on the new enhanced 10 years validity e-passport. The President had on Tuesday, 15th January 2019 while unveiling the new enhanced e-passport with a 10-year validity, directed that the NIN which is issued by the NIMC be inserted as additional data in the new passports. According to Loveday Chika Ogbonna, Head, Corporate Communications National Identity Management Commission and Sunday James, Public Relations Officer, Nigeria Immigration Service. This resolve to commence enforcement was agreed upon during a courtesy call by the Comptroller General of NIS, Muhammad Babandede MFR to the Director General NIMC, Engr. Aliyu Aziz on Monday at the Commission’s headquarters. The DG/CEO NIMC, in his address stated that the Commission had upgraded its software and infrastructure to enable the generation of the NIN in just micro seconds. “Few months ago, we had an issue that made NIN generation take up to hours and people had to come back the following day. However, right now it is instantaneous and that is the way we intend to maintain the system. “The type of Automated Biometric Identification System (ABIS) we utilize makes sure that theNIN is unique –that is our only job,” Said Engr. Aziz. The CG NIS, commended NIMC for the upgrades which has resulted in instant and timely allocation of the NIN. He also reiterated the NIS willingness to accommodate NIMC in all its 44 diplomatic missions abroad and 42 locations in Nigeria to ensure that all Nigerians and Legal residents are enrolled into the National Identity Database. “We are ready to provide space for you to operate in our locations to facilitate real-time online, integration. If an immigration officer touches the computer, he should be able to connect to NIMC real time online, get the number, so that he can issue a passport,” Babandede said. Babandede also expressed optimism for the collaboration, as a test run carried out by the NIS with one thousand NIN samples to match with one thousand biometric visas yielded a success rate of 89.4% which means it is good and that Nigerians are providing accurate information. He also assured that both agencies would continue to work together to ensure that there are no bottlenecks in the process. The DG, NIMC also showered encomiums on the NIS for their relentless commitment to fulfilling the Commission’s mandate. He reiterated to the public that for the next three years, NIMC will concentrate on the issuance of the NIN for now. 