A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State, Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, has pointed out that President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory in last Saturday’s presidential election was a feat worth celebrating for the party. He said for the APC to have recorded as much as 150,710 votes, against the People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP) 473,971 votes in Rivers, even with elections cancelled in Ikwerre, Okrika, Bonny, Ahoada and Akuku-Toru council areas, including 72,000 votes in Emohua, all of which are known APC strongholds, was worth celebrating. According to Eze, the development over the last weekend in the presidential election was an indication that the reign of PDP and that of the State Governor, Chief Nyesom Wike, was almost over. He added that the resolve exhibited by the people was uncommon, noting that they damned all consequences and shunned intimidation, propaganda as well as the agents of retrogressive forces in Wike’s administration to come out en masse to vote for Buhari, not minding the cancellation of six council areas that would have catapulted the party’s votes to the level of a party trusted by the people of Rivers State. He also congratulated the leader of APC in the South-South region, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, for demonstrating once again that he is on a divine mission to reunite the zone with the centre, saying further that “Amaechi as Director General against all odds to have led the Presidential Campaign Organisation of APC to two successful electoral polls victories, back to back, is a feat that puts him in the mold of great leaders of our generation.” Eze congratulated Dr Dakuku Peterside, the NIMASA DG for ensuring the success of the party in the presidential election in the state, demonstrating once again his love and commitment towards the vision of APC in Rivers State. “The exceptional inputs towards this struggle and great impact we made during the elections of Pastor Tonye Cole, Senator Uchendu, Ambassador Oji Ngofa,, Prince Tonye Princewill, Chief Ojukaye and Dr Sokonte Davies, ED Marine and operations, Nigerian ports Authority can’t be overemphasised. “Other great warriors and political force which inputs towards the great outing by APC during the presidential election that made President Buhari proud in Rivers State were Dr Dawari George, Dr Ibiamu Ikanya, Honourable Asita, Dr Chidi Lloyd, Dr George Tolofari, Hon Henry Okumgba, Chief Aso Wenah, Chris Amadi the NDDC EDFA, Engr Thankgod, Henry Ogiri, Udi Odum that fought to deliver Abua/Odual and numerous other stakeholders that ensured that the plots of our enemies didn’t consume us. “I pray that as we kick-off the kick out Wike project, let us all unite under the leadership of our leader, Rt. Hon Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and rescue Rivers State from the hands of Wike and his devious cohorts,” the statement read in part. 