APC, PDP go to polls with internal crises There are indications that the long-time aspiration of Ganiu Nasir Isiaka, GNI, to become the Governor of Ogun State looks good to materialise in Saturday’s governorship election.
This is as the internal crises and divisions in the other two major parties, the ruling All Progressives Congress and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, appear to be favouring the emergence of the African Democratic Congress’ candidate as the next governor of the state.
GNI, as he is fondly known, had taken a shot at the state’s Number 1 position twice under the umbrella of the PDP but lost to the ruling  APC.
But in what looks like a good time, ahead of the March 9  governorship election in Ogun State, political calculations by pundits have indicated that the ADC governorship flag bearer stands a brighter chance of securing highest votes due to the current political waves in the state, which are to his advantage.
Pundits believe that the lingering crises rocking the ruling APC and the major opposition  PDP, might pave the way for the ADC candidate’s dream. PDP and divided house
Though the crisis in the PDP appears to have been calm following the  party’s decision to support Senator Kashamu Buruji’s candidacy,  findings by our correspondent revealed that the party may not fully recover from the havoc that has been caused in its camp before the election.
Recall that Kashamu recently called on the party’s supporters across the state to forget the differences between the two factional camps of the party and win Ogun State for PDP.
Kashamu also called on members and supporters of the party to put the long-drawn leadership  tussle in the state’s chapter of the party behind them and work together for the victory of PDP in the general elections.
 Kashamu has been listed by the Independent National Electoral Commission  as the PDP candidate in Saturday’s governorship election in the  state.
Calling for a united PDP ahead of the poll, Senator Kashamu said though the crisis had brought about divisions in the party, such divisions should not be allowed to destroy the party.
“It has been a long-drawn battle between the Engr. Adebayo Dayo-led Ogun State PDP Executive and the Sikirulai Ogundele group which is backed by Honourable Oladipupo Adebutu. I reckon that when there is a dispute, there could be groupings. But our position has been that we should not allow such groupings to divide us, looking at the glory ahead of us. Notwithstanding the misunderstanding between the two groups, now that the courts have delivered their verdicts and the Independent National Electoral Commission has complied, it is time to look beyond the gladiators; lay aside our personal interest and prejudices and work for the PDP. This is the right path to take if we wish our state well and have its interest at heart. We believe that the PDP can build on the foundations laid by the founding fathers of our dear state and its current minders, and take it to greater heights. With the last judgment delivered by the FCT High Court, the issue of the list of candidates has been resolved,” Kashamu stated, as he appealed to the party faithful.
Kashamu added,  “In the light of the above, and with a high sense of responsibility, I wish to respectfully urge all our elders, leaders, members and followers to close ranks and work together in all the 236 wards of Ogun State.”
However, despite the plea by Kashamu, it was gathered that some die-hard members of the party who belong to the other faction are hell -bent on their decision not to support the party’s candidate.
A chieftain of the party who spoke on condition of anonymity,  said, “Does he think it will end there? How can you just wake up today and believe that a long-collapsed house will be built in a day? Anyway, we will not engage in anti-party activities but let us wait and see the outcome of their struggle, if they can do it alone.” APC, APM and Amosun’s suspension
On the part of the APC and the Allied Peoples Movement, there appears to be a development from a cracked house to a collapsed building.
Following different crises that have greeted the APC from the primary election that was conducted last year, the party has been battling with  one challenge to the another.
The crisis which saw some members of the party supported by Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s public support for APM later became a public embarrassment for APC national leaders as their presidential rally in the state, turned a public disgrace .
The development, despite the fact that APC managed to win the state for President Muhammadu Buhari during the presidential election, degenerated into the suspension of Governor Amosun by the party’s National Working Committee.
He was suspended alongside Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State and members who were found guilty of anti-party activities.
Owing to this, there are insinuations by political watchers that APC may go to the poll with a weak strength thereby forfeiting the governorship to a stronger party.
Meanwhile, APC has said that the suspension of Gov. Amosun will not affect the party’s victory in the March 9 Governorship and State House of Assembly election in the state.
The party’s national spokesperson, Mr Lanre Isa-Onilu said,  “As to the effect it will have in the coming Governorship and State House of Assembly elections, the real negative effect will come when we allow our members who are in a position of influence to undermine our candidates. We need to get it clear to every member who supports such actions that the party is watching them, and a similar fate may befall them.”
He added that the suspension of the governor would not have come to the public as a surprise following his  anti-party activities over a period of time. He recalled that the governor had been sponsoring candidates against those recognised by the party.
 “More so,  when you realise that APC is a party of discipline that has come to establish the fact that to deepen democracy, you must subject everybody to the rule of law, and that there must be equality for all before the law,” he added.
On  the Ogun APC rally saga, Isa-Onilu said, “This actually embarrassed our President, but we thought at that period, we were facing the Presidential and National Assembly Elections and that it was not the appropriate time for us to do anything that might be destructive to our cause, so we waited.”
Following the development, observers believe that Amosun’s suspension, among other factors, will determine APC’s fate in Ogun State.
According to them, the crisis that greeted APC will affect its chance in the governorship election.
“There is no way nemesis will not catch up with APC this time. Look at the crisis they have and I wonder how they will manage it. As it is, the party crisis may affect the party’s outing,”, Akeem Babajide, a public analyst, said. ADC’s chances
Following crisis in the camp of the opposition, GNI and ADC are expected to have no excuse this time.
According to a public analyst, Stephen Gbadamosi, there seems to be certain factors that will work in favour of Prince Isiaka.
 “First, GNI’s party, the ADC, is believed to be one of the strongest parties in the contest. It is a party of established politicians, being a potpourri of break-aways from the PDP, APC and other tested platforms,” Gbadamosi said.
Besides, according to political analysts, the dominant argument at the moment is in favour of Isiaka’s senatorial district, Ogun West. Instructively, it appears to be a consensus that the next governor of the state should come from among the Yewa people of the old Egbado Division, in the interest of justice and equity. Though, there are other contenders of Yewa extraction, particularly, Adekunle Akinlade of the APM, supported by the sitting governor, Amosun, there are indications that most elders in the state and the senatorial district, who are also advocates of power shift to Yewaland, are in strong support of Isiaka. A formidable force like former President Olusegun Obasanjo gave a hint of this recently.
The former president, who spoke recently during the presentation of Prince Isiaka and his running mate, Mrs Bolade Okeowo, as the governorship and deputy governorship candidates of the ADC, in what seemed like an endorsement, had said that the Yewa-born administrator-turned-politician had the quality to become the next governor of Ogun State.
“I will continue to do what is good for the country till I die. I am not a man of ADC; I am just a guide and adviser also to PDP, APC and SDP. Whoever comes around, my doors are open.
“GNI, I believe you are a good product and your running mate; but don’t sleep. You have to work hard. We have a peculiar situation in Ogun State since creation and the situation is that the East has democratically produced governors twice. Also, the Central has. But the West has not produced any. One of the things I usually hear is that they have no people. How dare you say that?
“No section of this country has monopoly of good people. I have maintained that it is time for the people of the West senatorial district to be given the opportunity to provide the governor,” Obasanjo was quoted as saying.
Similarly,  the Olowu of Owu, Oba Adegboyega Dosunmu, recently described GNI as the next governor of the state, when the latter visited his palace.
“I am foreseeing that GNI is going to represent Ogun State well at all levels, if he becomes governor. I respectively call him our governor. By God’s grace, he will be the next governor of Ogun State. I will continue to pray for you. Take note, whoever receives prayers in Owu Palace is always successful.
“Wherever you go, you will be loved dearly and people will work towards your political success. Gboyega Isiaka is a known successful man who is also competent. His consistent wish to rule is an indication of his love for the state. We should consider his consistent struggle,” the traditional
ruler said.
Besides the foregoing, some of the alignments and re-alignments being witnessed in the state in recent time seem to be in favour of GNI. Of recent, the leadership of another notable political party in the South-West, Accord Party, adopted Isiaka as its governorship candidate for the March 9 election.
Led by its secretary, Elder Amusa Sodipo; and three senatorial chairmen, the state executive council of the party said it was ready to work with and ensure victory for GNI and the ADC in the election.
Sodipo also invited other political parties to “join hands with Prince Isiaka and the ADC to bring life more abundant for Ogun people.”
Equally more strategic was Prince Isiaka’s endorsement, earlier in January, by major stakeholders and elders of Ogun-West senatorial district.
The elders, under the umbrella of Ogun West Stakeholders’ Forum, included the Asiwaju of Aworiland, Senator Ayodeji Otegbola; a former deputy governor of the state, Alhaja Salmot Badru; the Ekerin of Ota, Chief Bamgboye Osunlabi; Otunba of Ilaro, Dr Samuel Ibikunle; Iyaloja of Yewaland, Mrs Yemisi Abass; Asiwaju of Yewaland, Professor Anthony Asiwaju; a PDP chieftain, Mrs Iyabo Apampa; Mrs Mary Ogunjobi, Chief Bisiriyu Popoola, Chief Lisa Adejobi; and a former Minister of National Planning, Mrs Ebun Oyagbola.
“We have five sons of the soil gunning for the same seat and they include, Gboyega Isiaka (ADC), Abdulkabir Akinlade (APM), Oluseyi Olowookere  (AD), John Agboola (AAP) and Adewale Omoniyi (ANRP).
“In terms of structure, grassroots penetration, clear identity, visibility, national spread and internal cohesion, we asked ourselves which of these political parties was best suited for this all important journey and we discovered and agreed that it is Gboyega Nasir Isiaka,” coordinator of the forum, Dr. Kunle Salako, had said.
Those who are close to the GNI campaign organisation have also vowed that the group and its candidate would not leave any stone unturned in the effort to enlist the support of more critical stakeholders in the state to firm up existing structures of the
ADC. 