The family of Kunle Odedina is set to officially launch the Nigeriaehealth.org.ng  on Monday, March 4, 2019 in Lagos.According to Mr. Kunle Odedina, husband of the late Busola Odedina, a keynote presentation on the topic; Nigerian Medical Health System: Current Challenges will be delivered by Dr Rotimi Adewoye, a Consultant Obstetrician & Gynecologist. On Sunday, March 4, 2018, Mrs Busola Odedina passed away in a Nigerian hospital under a circumstance that pointed to negligence and sub-standard medical practice. She was 49.  A statement from the family said,  Every day, very many promising Nigerians suffer such fate; unknown and unreported. To die is not really a problem, since we all as mortals have signed up for it as a part of the living experience. What is most painful however is avoidable death and Nigeria is replete with deaths that are avoidable to the point where the country is almost like a coffin of human carcass from our dysfunctional health management system which manifests itself in different forms as follows:- Carelessness of our care givers- Inadequate experience of Medical Personnel- Badly run health institutions- Lack of information on the part of patients as to their ailments“No nation can be truly great when its citizens lack basic healthcare system. As a matter of fact, the development of a nation is measured by a global tool known as the human development index (HDI) which is a statistic composite index of life expectancy, education, health and per capita income indicators. This tool is used to rank countries into four tiers of human development. Calculation of the index combines four major indicators:- Life Expectancy for Health- Expected Years of Schooling- Mean Years of Schooling for Education- Gross National Income per capita for standard of living”Every year, the UNDP (United Nations Development Programme) ranks countries based on the HDI statistics released in its annual report. For the 2018 report as released freshly, Nigeria is ranked 157th out of 187 countries of the world so ranked. For the so called giant of Africa, this is an abysmal performance. “It is the reason Busola didn’t survive a mere routine procedure. It borders on quality of our medical personnel and the advancement in modern health care delivery system they have been exposed to. “Having come to this conclusion, we,as Nigerians, have two options, either to accept the current state of affairs and throw up our hands despondently, or to do something about the situation.”The family of Busola Odedina have decided to do something in our own little way to advance the care platform. Therefore, as part of activities to mark the first memorial anniversary of her passing, the family decided to launch Nigeriaehealth.org.ng as an online platform for relevant information and advice on health-related issues.” The essence of this is to provide avenue for second opinion on various medical issues in order to properly guide citizens to make the right choices. The website is designed to offer the opportunity of second guessing our healthcare system in such a way that we can help to save lives in the long run.” 