Kunle Awobodu, the National President, Building Collapse Prevention Guild (BCPG), has stated that there are over one thousand buildings unfit for human habitation on the Lagos Island. Awobodu made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lagos. He told NAN that BCPG had brought such distressed buildings to the notice of the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) for demolition. He spoke against the backdrop of the collapse of a three-storey building located at Massey Street, Ita-Faaji, Lagos Island, on Wednesday which killed some school pupils with many others injured. NAN reports that no fewer than 45 pupils said to be on the last floor of the building were rescued from the rubble. According to him, the collapsed building was one of the many buildings that were unfit for human habitation in Lagos Island. “There are over 1,000 distressed other buildings of this nature in Lagos, which, if nothing is done to demolish them, they will still collapse, resulting to more calamities in the state. “The collapsed building had been marked for demolition about three times, but the building regulatory agency has not demolished it. “We are moving round the circle and this has to stop. “Let the building control agency take the bull by the horn, by ensuring that all distressed buildings in the state are identified and demolished. “Let the state government look for preventive measures, rather than spending money for evacuation, investigation and remediation after the calamities and damages have occurred,” Awobodu said. He said that all the agencies responsible for monitoring buildings should be more proactive in discharging their mandates, if the issue of building collapse must stop. Awobodu said that the architects, building engineers, bricklayers and the end-users must also live up to expectations by complying with the construction rules and regulations guiding the industry. Also speaking, Mr Adelaja Adekanmbi, the Chairman, Nigeria Institute of Building (NIOB), Lagos Chapter, called for a Town Hall Meeting, comprising the government, professionals, developers and end-users in the built environment. Adekanmbi said the meeting was necessary as a platform for comprehensive deliberation among the players on how to tackle the issue of building collapse in Lagos State. According to him, all players in the industry have a role to play in addressing the issue of building collapse. He said that all the parties had contributed one way or the other to the cause of building collapse. “Residents, who are the end-users have vital roles to play in curbing building collapse; they are in a better position to detect early illegal, abandoned and substandard constructions. “LASBCA and other building regulatory authorities alone cannot properly monitor to detect when buildings are defective or when illegal constructions are going on, without the support of the residents. “It is the residents that are in a better position to detect distressed and substandard buildings within their areas. “It will be wicked of us to wait until calamity happens before government, institutions, professionals or individuals, can start to look for prevention. “It requires collective efforts to end building collapse, and all players in the industry must contribute their quotas,” Adekanmbi said. 