Centre for Anti- Corruption and Open Leadership, (CACOL) has commended the Muhammadu Buhari led administration for laying solid foundation for the fight against corruption through the operationalization of certain legal instruments. Speaking at a one day capacity building workshop organised by CACOL in Lagos with the theme : “Curbing corruption in Nigeria’s political processes : Establishing a grassroots paradigm in good governance, accountability and Transparency”, CACOL Executive Chairman, Mr Debo Adeniran commended Buhari administration for instituting certain legal instruments that are being used to curb corrupt practices. ” There are certain legal instruments that are being used now that makes it compulsory for people to declare their assets.Those that refused to declare their assets are already having their days in court. There are instruments like BVN that harmonises any amount you have in financial institutions. It doesn’t matter how many banks you have split them, your BVN will show it, harmonises it and the total figure will show somewhere.
” The use of Treasury Single Account has made it impossible for MDAs to open frivolous accounts  that are not known to law . So it is a way that has blocked several leakages through which our Commonwealth are being frittered away.
” So basically a new pedestal has been laid. We are just appealing to Nigerians to let the administration build on it.” CACOL boss further called on the people at the grassroots to make use of the  opportunity available to them to expose and fight corruption including the Freedom of Information Act . ” If you ask for information and the MDAs refused, you can embark on advocacy, that will expose them to the World as hypocritical elements “, Adeniran counselled.
Speaking on the workshop, Adeniran said it was designed to build the capacity of the people at the grassroots who are suffering extensively from bad governance but who don’t have special privileges and the financial capacity with which they can demand good governance from the rulers. 