Governor of Ebonyi State, Engr. David Umahi, has pledged that he would continue to pilot the affairs of the state with fear of God if reelected into office for second term.
Umahi, who is Chairman of South East Governors Forum, made the pledge during a meeting with religious groups, market women and widows in the state.
The groups, which included, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Muslim community, disclosed that they had contributed funds to support the reelection bid of Governor Umahi in the March 9 governorship and state Assembly elections in the state.
The Widows’ Coordinator in the state, Stella Ogoke, disclosed that her group made donations towards the reelection bid of the governor in appreciation of the empowered of windows in the state by the state government.
During a town hall meeting with the governor at the Akanu Ibiam International Conference Centre, Abakaliki, Mrs Ogoke, said the widows held prayer and fasting sessions to seek God’s blessing towards the re-election bid of the governor.
She said, “The widows have been indoors to seek the face of God ahead of the reelection of the governor. We have contributed N500 each among over 2000 widows whom you have empowered towards your election.
“We decided that we are going to give you the money to buy cow and other things that you will use to receive visitors who will be coming to congratulate you on your reelection after the March 9 governorship election”.
On his part, the state Chairman of CAN and Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Religion and Welfare Matters, Rev Fr. Abraham Nwali, said the church in the state  adopted the governor for the second term considering his contribution to the development of the state.
Father Nwali said the church would always stand by the Governor, stating that “Since you are not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, the church will not be ashamed to stand with you. We have made personal contributions towards your reelection because we know you are a child of God.” 