…Promises to step up fight against adulteration in Ebonyi The newly-posted Commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps in Ebonyi State,Mr  Steve Amoga, has appealed to government, corporate bodies and philanthropists to assist the Command with more utility vehicles and office equipment to increase their productivity. The Commandant vowed to put an end to vandalism of both government and private  properties   in the State, citing 21 years imprisonment as punishment to any vandal guilty of such crime. He made this known during a media briefing  at his office in Abakaliki where he reiterated the dedication of the Command in ensuring the enforcement of law and order in the State. The Commandant, who is three weeks in office as the new Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps Commandant in Ebonyi State, stated that five suspected vandals were cooling off in the cell and will be made to face  the full wrath of the law . He noted that stringent measures had been put in place to deal with vandals who destroy government properties, as the fight against vandalism would be heightened this period. He stressed that the Command would not tolerate any form of destruction of government property. He warned those who also indulge in the adulteration of diesel products to desist from such act , warning that  if they are caught, they won’t be spared from their crimes. He added that the Command partners with the State Emergency Management Agency, NEMA and the Red Cross Society amongst other organisation to reduce tension in cases of disaster and emergencies. While appreciating the Governor of the State for his good work to the Command, he  maintained that the Command has achieved a lot, but faces great challenge, as it lacks adequate operational vehicles, communication equipment and other logistics equipment that will help them deliver effectively on their mandate. He added that the permanent site of the Command built along Enugu \Abablkiki express way is ready but lacks the basic fittings that makes up an office. He therefore called on the state government for assistance. 