Imo State Governor-elect, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha,  has said that his administration would step on toes while trying to rebuild the state. He said that he was committed to liberating the state and begged who would be hurt in the process to bear with him and accept it as sacrifice. “I am very committed to liberating our state. I will strive to correct the ills in our state and make things work for the better. And in the course of it, I will step on some toes. I want to appeal to those that may be hurt, not to take it to heart but rather bear with us and accept it as a sacrifice in the rebuilding process. Our primary purpose is to get our state working again and I want to assure you that our government will give every Imolite, reasons to smile again,” he said. He disclosed plans to announce members of his Transition Committee soon to evaluate the status quo and articulate the take-off programmes when sworn in. The former lawmaker, while disclosing the motive for the transition committee further said, “By the grace of God, very soon I will announce my transition committee to evaluate the status quo and articulate our takeoff programmes when we are sworn in.” He urged civil servants and other relevant stakeholders in the state to avail the Transition Committee useful information, as according to him, “What we want to achieve is to institute a procedure, a due process by which activities will run smoothly, where we can practice democracy in the true sense of it. So much damage has been done to the state and so the expectations are very high.” Ihedioha who stated this at St. Peter’s Anglican Church Mbutu, Aboh Mbaise LGA on Sunday, during a thanksgiving service to mark his 54th birthday, pledged to dedicate his tenure to serving God and humanity, as according to him, “only God can protect and guide us towards achieving the rebuilding of our state.” He maintained that only a state that is entrusted in the hands of God, can realise the desire of the people of Imo State. “It is a thing of great joy that God has led me through the years past. I am indeed humbled by the grace of God and his Mercies in my life. He has shown me so much kindness and I must confess that I stand on a solid rock. He is my solid rock. “Let me pledge, that as a soldier of Christ, I will dedicate my tenure as Governor to the service of God, promoting Him and humanity because it is only God that can protect and enable us to accomplish our desire to make Imo, a greater state,” he stated. The Governor-elect, while seeking the partnership of the people, urged them to feel free to counsel him rather than condemn him. He said, “rather than condemn for condemning sake, I urge our people to please feel free to tell me those things you think we can do to get things right. I assure you that I will be a listening governor.” He promised to set up a Bureau to look into the issues of unduly sacked teachers who still have a lot to offer the state. He frowned at the level of mismanagement of the finances of the state. Earlier, in his address, the Bishop of Mbaise Diocese, Anglican Communion, Rt. Rev.Chamberlain Ogunedo, who officiated the service, prayed to God to give the Governor-elect a heart of understanding to steer the ship of state according to His will and direction. He also prayed God to sustain and protect him and his mandate to be able to meet the aspirations of the people. Present at the service were; Amb. Dr. Kema Chikwe, Hon. Ezenwa Onyewuchi, Hon. Jones Onyereri, Hon. Nze Ray Emeana, Prof. Jude Njoku, Chief Kanayo O. Kanayo, Chief Fidelis Anosike, Prof. Chudi Uwazuruike, Chief Austin Papa Nwokorie, Rt. Hon. Nnaemeka Maduagwu, Chief Chinedu Nwokorie, Chief Austin Onwubiko, Chief Tony Abili, Chief Joe Ehioma, Chief Oxide Ogbonna, members of PDP State Working Committee, LGA PDP Chairmen, members-elect of Imo State House of Assembly, governorship candidates of various political parties in the just concluded elections, State Chairmen of various political parties, PDP Candidates in the just concluded election, traditional rulers, among other various support groups .  