A 20-year-old man, David Sunday, has been arraigned before a Magistrate court sitting in Ojo in the Ojo Magisterial District, Lagos State for stealing, mounting an illegal road block, extorting motorists and vandalizing vehicles. The accused person was brought to court by  Sola Olajiga, a police Inspector attached to Onireke Police Station, along the Lagos-Badagry Road. It was gathered that prior to his arrest, Sunday used to harass motorists at an illegal check point opposite Ojo Military Cantonment, in the Ojo Magisterial District of Lagos State. The prosecutor, Inspector Ben Aigbokhan,  said the accused person, with  others now at large, “conspired to steal and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 411 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015.” The second count read that Sunday and others at large were civilians but created their own checkpoint at Onireke area, along Badagry – Lagos Expressway “and were extorting money from the motorists thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 68 of the 2015 Criminal Laws of Lagos State.” It added that the  accused person and others at large, “unlawfully assembled and conducted themselves to cause breach of peace and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section  280 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015. The fourth and fifth counts read in parts that the accused person and others at large “did steal three mobile handsets valued at N30,000 from the motor of one Adedeji Akinremi and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 280 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State. “The accused person and others now at large did maliciously damage the windscreen of a Volvo lorry with registration number, LAGOS  FST 44 XA, property of Adedeji Aderemi and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 339 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015.” However, the accused person pleaded not guilty to the five-count charges preferred against him. The presiding Magistrate, Mrs. Joy Ugbomoiko, granted bail to the accused person in the sum of N100,000 with two 