Between 5 and 6:30am on February 23, 2019 being the day of the Presidential and National Assembly elections in the country, the people of Maiduguri were treated to several deafening sounds of bombs in various parts of the state capital. This incident raised fears and provoked questions. A neighbour of mine who was observing as I was starting my car in the morning asked  in astonishment:  “Oga, where are you going this early morning? “
“I am going to Bulumkutu Abuja (one of the pulling wards in Maisandari Zone) to cast my vote and observe the happenings there since I have been officially designated there”, I replied.
 Not convinced at my response, he asked, “Did you not hear sounds of bomb blasts since the early hours of this morning?”
 “Yes, I heard”, was my reply. Not done, he questioned, “Are you contesting as a governor or Senator?”
 “No”, I responded. Then another sound of bomb blast and he said “Oga! You hear” and without waiting for my reaction, he left straight into his flat leaving me behind..
 After minutes of equivocation, I went back into my flat, prayed along with my wife and left for the place of my assignment. On the way, I got a call from a colleague who was on a similar assignment in another sector of my zone. He told me that a security source said the Independent National Electoral Commission  should tarry a bit for the dust to settle as it is trying to clear the mess from the unfortunate happenings of the morning hours. As I journeyed to my destination in Bulumkutu Abuja, I observed almost everywhere empty and where I saw people, they were in groups, possibly discussing the harvest of bombs that morning.
By Jove, I got to my destination which is about ten kilometres from my point of embankment. The elections however took place hours later with many people trooping out.
However, on March 9, 2019 during the governorship and State Assembly elections in the state, it was peace all through before and after the exercise. No sound of bomb, insurgent attack or suicide bombing before and throughout the period.
Then, I assumed that Boko Haram sect has fully endorsed the Governorship and House of Assembly exercise and this might be the beginning of the end of the insurgency. Alas, I was wrong, as days later, the insurgents were back at their nefarious activities wrecking havoc here and there, especially in Borno State.
Though Professor Babagana Zulum of All Progressives Congress (APC) emerged as the governor-elect,  beating Mallam Mohammed Imam, the Peoples Democratic Party candidate, but from the sudden re-insurgence of  terror coupled with other challenges on ground, it not yet Uhuru (freedom) for Professor Zulum who, from overwhelming evidence on ground, will have more rivers to cross as Kashim Shettima, who had to bolster through the debris of catastrophe and complex power politics of Borno.
It would be recalled in his endorsement of Professor Zulum as his successor before the conduct of APC governorship primary election featuring 21 aspirants, Governor Kashim pointed out that his endorsement of Zulum was without prejudice to the participation of other candidates in the primary. He explained that Borno has witnessed blood, deaths, sorrow and immeasurable destruction and would need in these peculiarities and circumstances a leader of focus, courage, acceptable within and out, hardworking and can deliver the dividends of
democracy.
According to Governor Kashim, “Borno has witnessed a long period of gloom and doom. Our peculiar experiences in Borno State have to my mind, made the task of choosing a potential Governor a difficult one. It was a task, which required and forced me to set aside personal interest and consider the greater interest of our dear state. Borno is greater than Kashim Shettima and Borno is greater than any one of us.
“As Governor from 2011 to date, I can say without any iota of doubt that handling the affairs of Borno State is as complex as steering the affairs of some big countries. The challenges before Borno are more than whatever anyone might imagine.
“Making the choice of my potential successor was beyond my thinking alone. Such a choice required a combination of very deep thoughts and wisdom. I therefore had to undertake very extensive consultations. I consulted to extents never reached in the recent political history of Borno State.
I have met virtually all the critical segments that make up our dear State. I have held closed-door meetings and had frank and open discussions with our royal fathers and elders. I have visited homes and met with past and serving leaders, party stakeholders and professionals of various fields. I even went as far as employing the services of agents unknown to each other, which I sent to communities across our 27 local government areas to feel the pulses of our citizens. In all my consultations, I created one-on-one atmosphere to get undiluted opinions.
I held one on one meeting with public office holders across different levels of Borno. I made sure I was getting the honest opinions of everyone.
I was able to collate views as comprehensive as humanly possible. I looked at these views as objectively as possible.
“Of our 21 aspirants, if I were to support and hand pick what some people might call any of my closest boys as successor; I most certainly would go for Barrister Kaka Shehu Lawan or Adamu Lawan Zaufanjimba. If, on the other hand, public service is the only consideration, none of the aspirants can be more qualified than our elder statesman, Ambassador Baba Ahmed lidda. If loyalty to political association is my main consideration, Distinguished Senator Abubakar Kyari has proved unalloyed loyalty to political association with me. If years of sincere and mutual friendship are my main consideration, Distinguished Senator Baba Kaka Bashir Garbai and Alhaji Mai Sheriff are my closest friends amongst all our aspirants. If the consideration is about humility and ability to carry people along, His Excellency Shettima Yuguda Dibal is legendary. I have relationship and so much respect for majority of the aspirants, the likes of Hon. Umara Kumalia, Makinta, name them. In fact, two of the aspirants, Mustapha Fannarambe and Umar Alkali are my relatives. All aspirants have divergent qualities. However, because of the situation we found ourselves, considerations for the next Governor of Borno State requires specific quips tailored to our needs for now.
“From the generality of feedbacks, there is no doubt that what will define political debates in Borno’s 2019 Governorship election will be promises in the aftermath of brutal conflict, deaths and destructions of communities.
“Everywhere in the world, post conflict rehabilitation, restoration, reconciliation and resettlement are complex, composite and interwoven.
“With humility and absolute respect for all aspirants, I will like to say, that from overwhelming opinions and feedbacks, the aspirant with an edge in understanding the Peace-Development Nexus of Borno’s post conflict future is Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, mni. Victor Izekor, a journalist and public affairs analyst, writes at victorizekor@gmail.com 