 • Gets N50k bail  Popular Nigeria singer, composer and performer, Johnson Oyindamola, with the stage name, Dammy Krane, has been arraigned by the police, before a Lagos Magistrate’s court sitting in Igbosere, over threat to life and defamation. Keane was docked yesterday on alleged four counts charge of conspiracy, threat to life, defamation, and conduct likely to cause a breach of public peace. The Afro pop singer, was said to have threatened the lives of staff of a betting company, Merrybet Gold Limited, on July 29, 2019, and also released a song, in which he accused the firm of breach of contract. The prosecutor, Inspector Justin Enang, told the court that the musician committed the offences, by posting an audio and video, on the internet accusing the company of owing him. The prosecutor also told the court that the defendant attended a game show sponsored by the betting company but lost, adding that Dammy Krane was said to have, however, demanded some money for appearing on the show. But that the firm disagreed, insisting that the sum was only given to winners. Due to the above senerio, the embittered musician subsequently went on Cool FM radio, where he said the betting firm owed him money and breached a contractual agreement. The prosecutor said “Oyindamola and others at large on July 29, 2019, at Cool FM in Lagos, conspired with each others at large to commit felony to wit: conduct likely to cause breach of peace and threat to life. “Oyindamola and others at large on the same date, time and place, threatened the life of the staff of Merrybet Gold Limited,” he said. According to the prosecutor, the offences are punishable under Sections 301, 411 and 168 (d) of the criminal law of Lagos State 2015 and punishable under the same Law. However, the 27-year-old musician pleaded not guilty to the four count charges against him. The defendant’s lawyer, Mr Adebayo Oniyelu, urged the court to grant him bail in liberal terms, as he is a first time offender, adding that he would be produced whenever he is needed. He said: “We humbly apply for the bail of the defendant, Section 35 (5), states that an accused person is still presumed innocent until proven guilty.” “He is a well known and a popular musician, if granted bail, he would be made available. He has been in police custody since Friday 13, September,” Oniyelu added. Responding to the bail application, the prosecutor, Enang, said that he was going to oppose the bail, as the offence is a national issue. Enang also said that he heard on radio and read in newspaper that the defendant was going to be arraigned at Igbosere, adding that it is a national issue. When Chief Magistrate Afolashade Botoku, asked to know the nature of the offence of the defendant, Enang said it is an International issue that is all over the media. Following the prosecutor’s submission, the defendant’s lawyer, however narrated what transpired between the nominal complainant and his client. He told the court that his client and the complainant had a disagreement over a breach of contract. He said: “the defendant, performed for the complainant and he was being owed the sum of N1 million and when he demanded for it, the next thing we saw was his arrest”. A representative of the company, Mr. Otemu Anaonye, told the court that the company is not owing the defendant. Also, the company’s lawyer, Mr N. Anachebe, who was holding brief for the company, told the court that the defendant posted audio and video messages on his Instagram page claiming that the company was owing him, he was asked to pull it down, but he refused. After listening to the parties, Magistrate Botoku asked, if the crux of the matter was defamation, she said if so, it should be a civil matter. Anachebe, responded that the case of defamation can be both criminal and civil. Also, a lawyer in the court, Mr. Olumide Ajetunmobi, applied to the court of his interest to be added as one of the sureties in the case. Instantly, Magistrate Botoku, granted him bail in the sum of N50,000, with one surety in like sum and adjourned the case till October 11, for mention. 