 A Peoples Democratic Party chieftain in Ijebu North, Ogun State, Princess Olanrewaju Ogunsanwo, has urged politicians and elected office holders to always strive to live up to the expectations of their followers. Ogunsanwo also called on them to emulate the Deputy Minority Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon Adesegun Adekoya. Speaking on Sunday, Princess Ogunsanwo said it was imperative for politicians to adequately provide for their followers and be willing to serve them at all times, rather than lording it over their supporters. “A good leader does not lord it over his followers; he must be willing to serve and not be served,” she said. The PDP chieftain described Adekoya, popularly called Attacker, as a politician to be emulated in that regard. “Hon Adekoya is a good politician that understands his followers, as this quality of his facilitates good leadership and followership,” she said. According to Oyesanwo, good leadership begets good followership. Citing the Holy Bible passage on the Good Shepherd and his sheep, Oyesanwo said a good leader should be ready at all times to protect and guide his followers. She added, “Hon Adekoya is a good shepherd that is ready at all times to protect and guide his followers. “A good leader, as demonstrated by our Lord Jesus Christ, stands firm to protect and guide his followers, especially in times of danger.” Oyesanwo, therefore, called on politicians to emulate the good leadership qualities exhibited by Adekoya and the Good Shepherd in the Holy Bible, who laid down his life for the salvation of his sheep. Hon Adekoya recently distributed free schoolbags and mathematical sets to thousands of students in Ogun State. Students from about 52 secondary schools in the state benefitted from this gesture by the lawmaker. The PDP chieftain noted that this gesture was enough to encourage and complement the efforts of the state government in revamping the education sector. Oyesanwo noted that the gesture also gave her great pleasure to put to shame all her critics, who were making jest of her during the campaigns that her candidate, Hon Adekoya, would not perform if elected. She, therefore, stated that the gesture by the lawmaker was just a tip of the iceberg, adding that critics should just watch and see Hon Adekoya (Attacker) excel throughout his tenure.  