 By Agnes Igwe, Abakaliki Ebonyi state government has declared its readiness to establish vocational school at Margret Umahi international market Abakaliki for children traders. This might not be unconnected with the UNICEF Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey, which states that while South East recorded 11.3 per cent out of school children in 2016/2017, Ebonyi State has recorded 21.4 per cent out of school children. Governor Dave Umahi disclosed that building a vocational centre at the International market as palliative measure for some of the children that are trading because of circumstances in their families, will enable them to school and trade at the same time. Speaking during the flag-off of a programme tagged Better Education Service Delivery for All, which took place at International Conference Centre, Abakaliki, with many stakeholders in the education sector from federal and state levels in attendance, Umahi identified illiteracy as one of the major causes of insecurity and violence in the country. He advised that children should go to school because that is the only way to safeguard their future and to have a peaceful coexistence. “I was addressing the press on the unfortunate attack on our brother, former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu in Germany. Those that attacked him were not medical doctors or engineers or lawyers or chief executives of parastatals or industries. “Even if they were, at least educated people of IPOB members, they wouldn’t do what they did. And so, it is lack of education. Lack of education brings frustrations and that is a clear case of what happened. And so as we make efforts today, to bring back these children who probably would be attacking us in England, or in America tomorrow, we should know that the slogan in our dear state that every child is your child whether biological or not. We should bear in mind that the only way to safeguard the future of your children and your own future and to have a very peaceful evening, is to preserve future of the children,” he said. 