 TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Osun State Government has disclosed that it would begin inauguration of the revitalised 100 Primary Healthcare Centres across the state on Friday. This was disclosed on Wednesday at the Press Conference addressed by the members of the Osun Health Revitalisation Committee at the conference room, Ministry of Health, Government Secretariat, Osogbo. They were represented at the conference by Remi Omowaye and Dr. Rafiu Isamotu, Omowaye. According to the committee, the revitalisation exercise will cover 332 PHCs, which is one per ward. It however said 100 of them have been completed, some of which had already been put into use from the day they were completed as a result of exigency. The committee noted that 21 PHCs would be inaugurated in the first phase, while the remaining ones would be done subsequently. Speaking further, the committee said the administration of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola was committed to ensuring healthy living, saying the initiative was in response to the yearnings and aspirations of the people to advance the health sector in the state, with a view to providing quality health care at the primary and secondary levels. “What we are doing is revitalisation of our hospitals and the initiative takes care of the needs of personnel, the need to enhance the facilities as well as the provision of adequate drugs in all the hospitals across the state. “We are not limiting the scope of this exercise to PHCs alone; we have equally launched massive rehabilitation of our secondary health facilities in the state. “Our state seems to be one of the states with highest PHCs, but with the ongoing revitalisation and rehabilitation exercise, we are determined to make them functional and respond adequately to the needs of our people. “The state government had commenced the rehabilitation of the General Hospitals. Work has reached different levels of completion particularly in Osogbo, Ejigbo and Ifetedo General Hospitals. “The administration is committed to the adequate funding of the Health Insurance Scheme so as to enhance the capacity of the people to quality healthcare facilities. “We have procured state-of-the-art facilities for our hospitals to strengthen the sector for efficient and effective service delivery. “On the need to boost the capacity of the personnel, the state is collaborating with both teaching hospitals of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife and Ladoke Akintola University of Technology to see how they can assist.” Also speaking, Dr. Isamotu, immediate past Commissioner of Health, noted that the administration is resolute to bringing about the desired change in the health sector, saying that was what informed the need to embark on the overhauling of the health system in the state. “The ongoing transformation in the health sector is a clear manifestation to the government’s commitment to healthy living. This government is no doubt committed to the fact that ‘health is wealth’ as reflected in the huge investment the state government had made to reposition the sector for the use and betterment of the citizenry”, Dr. Isamotu added. 