 Francis Kadiri, Abuja The Managing Director of Cosgrove Investment Limited, Mr Umar Abdullahi and his firm have been honoured at the 2019 Conference and Expo tagged Archibuilt 2019, held in Abuja. At the ceremony organised by the Nigeria Institute of Architects, while Abdulahi was in his individual capacity rewarded for his rare genius, penchant for standards and leadership acumen that characterized his uncommonly eventful decade-long real estate as the “Real Estate Developer of the Year”, his organisation, Cosgrove was honored in its corporate capacity for “excellence in smart cities development in the country.” Speaking on the significance of the NIA’s recognition of Abdullahi and Cosgrove in their individual and corporate capacities, stakeholders noted that a product bears the values prioritized by the producer. Industry experts said that Abdullahi, who has the good fortune of being the first construction industry CEO in Nigeria to be honored alongside his organization deserves the merits in view of the ground-breaking strides he was able to score for the construction industry in Nigeria. The Chairman, Archibuilt Development Services, Arc. Jimoh Faworaja said the honor was conferred in recognition of effort made by Cosgrove in the country’s building – construction sector adding that honoring deserving real estate developers is an effective way of promoting the growth of architectural, engineering and design brands in the country. Faworaja, who is a former President of the NIA, noted that Archibuilt showcased Cosgrove for the company’s ability to “leverage on the use of innovative technology to tackle the challenges in this constantly evolving and growing building, development and construction sector, bringing global standards and practices to Nigeria.” The Chief Executive Officer, Cosgrove Investment Limited, Abdullahi, who was represented by the Head of Marketing, Cosgrove, Chioma Ugwu, commended the NIA for the recognition and assured that it will continue to strengthen its departments in order to sustain the lead. The Cosgrove boss disclosed that the company would continue to invigorate its Research and Development department, a policy, he said helped the company to stay abreast of innovation and inventions in housing construction, adding that it is led by a core team of accomplished professionals. Speaking on the special features of Cosgrove’s latest offering, he said: “Smart people will definitely take advantage the innovations that typify the Smart Estates currently being developed by Cosgrove,” adding that the homes will feature latest innovations in housing security technology such as the Automatic Number Plate Recognition system and high definition security cameras that are smart. According to him, the ability of Cosgrove to transfer the ANPR security technology to Nigeria will sustainably address security challenges in homes and commercial buildings in the country while also addressing some of the challenges associated with road use. While assuring that Cosgrove will continue to play crucial roles in automation of both residential and commercial structures in the country through proven methods; Ugwu noted that the organization is led by a core team of globally recognized professionals who have made their marks in housing technology. “It is part of our corporate values to deploy systems that are uncommon in our milieu, proven and ready for tomorrow’s technology,” he added. 