 . Hold her for three days for buying N2,000 ‘stolen’ weave-on . Woman delivers a day after arraignment in court . Command not aware of her ordeal- Police spokesman Osemwengie Ben Ogbemudia, Benin The police in Edo State have detained a nine-month pregnant woman over her failure to pay N200,000 to secure her bail from detention. The pregnant woman, simply identified as Mrs. Queen, was arrested by policemen from the Area Command along Sapele Road, Benin City, Edo State, for allegedly purchasing stolen hair weave-on worth N2000 from a marketer at a salon she had gone to make her hair. However, the woman, who was arraigned before the Magistrate’s Court on Sapele Road, Benin City on Thursday, delivered a baby boy on Friday night. She was charged along with the marketer of the weave-on and the hair dresser, who helped her to fix the attachment on her hair. The heavily pregnant woman was charged for buying the weave-on, which the police declared stolen goods. Our correspondent gathered that the pregnant woman was at a hair dressing salon to fix her hair when a marketer of the weave-on attachment brought the products, which she bought and immediately used for her hair by the hair dresser. But shortly afterwards, policemen from the Area Command along Sapele Road, Benin stormed the salon and arrested the pregnant woman, the marketer of the weave-on and the hairdresser over the ‘stolen’ hair product. The three suspects were taken to the police station, but the marketer and the hair dresser were granted bail by the police after they allegedly parted with some money. The pregnant woman was then detained and subsequently forced to spend three days in police cell for her inability to raise the sum of N200,000 allegedly demanded by the Investigating Police Officer (names withheld) handling her case. Some human rights activists told The Point that keeping the heavily pregnant woman in detention for three days because she couldn’t afford the N200, 000 demanded by the IPO contradicted the provisions of the 1999 Nigerian Constitution and the Administration of Criminal Justice Law of Edo State. The Point learnt that the IPO, who was insistent on collecting the N200,000 bail from the pregnant woman, tried every trick to frustrate her release from detention. It, however, took the intervention of the Coordinator General of Edo Civil Society Organisations, Leftist Omobude Agho, and some other activists to secure her release, after she had spent three days in police detention. The activists described the case of the pregnant woman as one among the many unprofessional conducts by police officers in Edo State, with no or little supervision by their senior officers expected to superintendent over them. According to Omobude, “EDOCSO will stop at nothing to ensure that such abuses of human rights by police officers in Edo State are nipped in the bud, and police officers found culpable dealt with in line with the Police Act and Regulations.” EDOCSO Public Relations Officer, Osazee Edigin, told The Point that the police in the state only took a face-saving measure by hurriedly arraigning the pregnant and the other accused persons in court to cover up their “unprofessional conduct” in the handling of the matter. Edigin, therefore, urged the police to stop keeping suspects in detention for longer than the period stipulated by the constitution before arraigning them in court. He said, “In a bid to cover up their shameful unprofessional conduct, they (police) rushed them to court. Thankfully, she was granted bail and the bail conditions were such that she met same day and went home to wait for the next adjourned date. “Two days after her appearance in court, she was delivered of a baby. You can imagine if her incarceration in police custody had lingered due to her inability to pay the N200,000 demanded to secure her bail, it therefore follows that the child would have been delivered in police cell. “We are determined to put a stop to the prolonged detention by the Edo State Police Command and Zone 5 over bail money, which runs contrary to the Constitution and the Criminal Justice Law of the state. This practice has become worrisome. It is human rights abuse and we’ll deploy all legal means to put an end to it. This cannot continue in our state. Suspects should be released with reliable sureties within the constitutionally stipulated time and /or be charged to court, should there be reasons to press charges.” But the state Police Public Relations Officer, Chidi Nwabuzor, said that the command was not aware of the pregnant woman’s ordeal in police custody. Nwabuzor, a deputy superintendent of police, promised to investigate and get back to our correspondent, but as at the time of filing this report he had yet to do so. 