ADEJUWON OSUNNUYI Governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has described the judgement by the Ogun State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal as the triumph of rule of law; victory for democracy and further validation of the mandate bestowed on him at the polls. In a statement signed by Kunle Somorin, Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Abiodun said he remained magnanimous in victory and extended, once again, a hand of fellowship to all opposition elements in the State and called on the opposition Allied Peoples Movement to forget about 2019 gubernatorial elections and join hands with his government on its Building Our Future Together agenda. He advised that rather than dissipating energy and resources on litigation, they should either negotiate their return to the All Progressives Congress where they were or start preparing for 2023 elections. “Opposition strengthens democracy and I appreciate the fact that he went to the Tribunal in exercise of his constitutional rights. The Tribunal has validated the mandate freely given to us by the masses at the polls. “The candidate and all members of APM and indeed members of other parties are free to join APC. Those who are still aggrieved should learn that democracy is about majority rule. The people have spoken and the Tribunal has validated their choice of me. Anybody who feels otherwise should start preparing for 2023” Gov Abiodun thanked the people of Ogun State for their support and solidarity, promising that he would not take their mandate for granted as he would continue to work towards enhancing the people’s welfare, peace and prosperity of the State. He thanked the judiciary for the painstaking efforts and fair and lucid judgement which has further strengthened the nation’s democracy and enriched the jurisprudence. Gov Abiodun eulogised his legal team led by Prof Taiwo Osipitan (SAN) for their demonstration of depth, dedication and brilliance and applauded the support of the APC leadership in Ogun State for the solidarity, love and firm commitment to the course of justice. He assured the people of his Administration’s commitment to providing a focused and on qualitative governance anchored on fairness, equity and inclusiveness.  