 TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola has charged corps members posted to the state to play their roles in nation building, saying they should ensure they do only those things that will promote unity and peaceful co-existence. The governor also tasked the 1,800 corps members not to look down on the people of their host communities but should respect and value them. The governor asked them to use the skills and trainings acquired during the course of their orientation to impact positively on the lives of the people in the communities they would be posted to, as well as in their various places of primary assignments. Governor Oyetola gave the charge on Monday during the closing Ceremony and Terminal Parade, marking the end of the three-week orientation course for the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream ll corps members, at the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Orientation Camp, Ede. Oyetola, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Dr. Charles Akinola, also urged the corps members to use the opportunity given to them by the scheme to discover themselves and pursue things that can help to harness their potentials productively so as to achieve great things in life. “My dear compatriots, now that you have been exposed to and fully equipped with the skills needed to help you excel not only during the service year but also hereafter, I urge you to put these skills and trainings into good use. “Ensure you play your role in nation building effectively without bitterness or rancour, as these are emotions capable of incapacitating and limiting you from achieving optimally in life. “As you have successfully completed the first cardinal programme of the NYSC, I want you to exhibit the same spirit and discipline in ensuring you participate actively in the other three cardinal programmes of the orientation exercise. “I want to assure you that the government is very passionate about you and that is why it keeps coming up with programmes and initiatives to help you actualise your dreams and harness fully the potentials that are deeply rooted in you as graduate youths. “I would like you, therefore, to embrace every initiative of government geared towards providing an enabling environment for you to thrive and bloom. “It is important that you make judicious use of the key activities of the orientation course like the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED), be good ambassador at your place of primary assignment and organise programmes to support your host communities so as to make your service year a successful one. “Ensure you transfer the trainings and skills you have acquired to the people of your host communities, especially the youths and adolescents around you as this will help them to develop a positive mindset and self-esteem needed to keep them off the streets and gainfully engaged. Remember, this is one of the many ways through which you can give back to the scheme and the nation. “I urged you to be committed to the scheme and to our nation. Do only those things capable of promoting peace and unity in the communities where you are posted to. Do not look down on the people of your host communities, but rather, love them and do them good at all times. Stay apolitical and do not get involved in activities capable of jeopardizing your security and the peaceful co-existence in your community. “I would like to assure you that the people of your host communities are friendly and peace-loving. Therefore, feel free to relate well with them as your fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters,“ Oyetola said. In his remarks, the NYSC State Coordinator, Mr. Adegoke Ayodele, disclosed that over 70 percent of the prospective corps members have been posted to schools to support education in the state. He noted that 1,800 corps members who have been equipped with requisite skills and knowledge to excel in life in the 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream ll are expected to serve in various institutions in the state. He commended the state government for being supportive of the scheme. “Much is expected of you and we are counting on you not to fail. Take your service year seriously and ensure you put the nation first in all you do. “You are charged to apply the skills that you have acquired judiciously and productively, and do not disappoint the scheme which has gone the long way to prepare you ahead of future challenges”, Ayodele added. 