 SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has accused the immediate past governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun of failing to manage the Security Trust Fund effectively. Abiodun, who made this known at a thank you meeting with members of his All Progressives Congress, on Tuesday, to appreciate their support on his victory at the Election Petition Tribunal, said that the security trust fund failed under Amosun’s government because of the way it was mismanaged According to Abiodun, the trust fund, under the previous administration, failed because of what he described as “government issues”, saying that he had sent a bill for the amendment of the law establishing the Trust Fund to avoid reoccurrence in the future. He said, “We amended the law that set up our security trust fund so that it has appropriate governance and why did we do that, we realised the fact that the previous security trust fund failed. It failed because of governance issues and we thought we needed to look at that.” “We are determined to make this State safe for ourselves, the citizens, our visitors, residents and investors. We will not tolerate lawless under any guise. We will not tolerate indiscipline, we will not tolerate cultism.” “If we indeed want to attract investors to Ogun state, if indeed the Ogun state citizens have entrusted me with their mandate as the chief security officer of this State, I must ensure that people can go about their legitimate businesses, sleep in their homes without having to worry about crime or criminals. So we began to take the issue of security very seriously and very important.” The governor however maintained that for the failure of the fund not to reoccur in the future there is need for the establishment of right team of people to manage the fund effectively. He continued, “We have a wholesome team of people whose job is to ensure that they liaise with our law enforcement agencies, look at their needs, they provide the funding and they manage the funding. On our part as a State, we will also provide our counterpart funding.” Abiodun, while noting that his administration has appointed auditors and would not interfere on how the members of the Trust Fund would manage the fund, stressed that he would make sure the members of the Trust Fund work independently without interference from any quarters. 