 SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA No fewer than three persons have been shot while one person sustained machete injuries when some hoodlums suspected to be land grabbers, otherwise known as Omo Onile, attacked four communities in Odogbolu local government area of Ogun State over the weekend. The hoodlums, numbering about 30 were said to have stormed the communities namely, Mooro Otefisan, Odoonosa, Gbodomo and Amitekun, as they unleashed terror on their victims. The hoodlums were said to have invaded the communities following the arrest of their leader, Kamorudeen Lamina a.k.a Sir K. Oluwo who is being detained at Sagamu prison over a land dispute that resulted to the death of three persons. One of the three victims of the gun shot is Ojujebe Oluwatobi while Razaq Omotoye sustained degree of machete injuries. They are currently receiving treatment in an undisclosed hospital. Addressing journalists in Sagamu on the attack, the leader of one of the communities, High Chief Jimoh Balogun said the attackers were identified as thugs working for Lamina. Balogun, who is the Baale of Odoonosa said that Lamina still gave out orders on attacks and terrorise the people of the area from the Sagamu prison where he is cooling his feet. The Baale, who accused the prison officials of aiding Lamina in dishing out instructions to his thugs on whom to attack, said that the hoodlums had laid siege on the communities since last Thursday before they struck on Saturday. He however called on the federal government to investigate the matter and punish the prison officers if found culpable. Also speaking, a retired marine officer, Captain Michael Adegboyega Shonubi told journalists that the police in the state have not been able to curb the activities of land grabbers, saying that all effort made reporting Lamina yielded no fruitful results. He said ”I want to beg the Inspector General of Police to do something about this issue. We are begging him to come to our aid because our people are in pain. The policemen in Ogun State are not doing justice because of money. We have our boys too that we can mobilize but we are law abiding citizens. We don’t want to take laws into our own hands,” he said. 