 By ADEJUWON OSUNNUYI. A leading Out-of-Home Media Company in Nigeria, Luzo Digital Network & Media Limited, has been signed on as the Nigerian affiliate and partner of NEXNOVO Technology, a global leader in next generation LED application and visual impact company. NEXNOVO Technology is the owner of smart poster brand and other innovative visual and light effect technologies in the digital out-of-Home and experiential marketing industry. The affiliation and partnership arrangement will transform Luzo DN & Media into a mind blowing digital media company. The company has been known for introducing various innovation driven outdoor platforms in the Nigerian advertising industry like the Street Column and BBI on-water and on-land inflatable hoardings. According to Mr. Bidwell Nkemakolam Okere, MD/CEO of Luzo DN & Media Limited, “With this new partnership, LUZO DN have since commenced client engagements and discussions on many fields of visual digital marketing communication NEXNOVO technology will bring to the table in revolutionising and shaping how retail point ad communication, ambience advertising and interaction will be like in next few years in Nigeria.” He said, “NEXNOVO Technology is the owner of Smart Poster LED, Stage Screen and other Light Effects technologies including the now famous transparent and next generation LED, used majorly in advanced markets. Its application is so wide but targeted at glass walls, escalator rail, guardrails, glass-showcase and windows, entrance glass sliding doors, stage rental and display windows.” “Smart Posters have been proven to drive sales more than any other retail point of sales platform because of its interactive, appealing and compelling message presentation capacity and its fast delivery turnaround time because of digital cloud host and remote dissemination of campaign on real time basis,” adding that “the product comes in series with ready to deploy models and custom made-to-specification hardware models too,” the outdoor expert said. Speaking on the usability and adaptability of the new offering, Okere stated that chain stores, fast food, luxury shops, car show rooms, Lounges, restaurants, banks and telecoms call centers will find the product experience worth the while; therefore, “Needless to say the Return on Investment (ROI) of this application is a guarantee,” Luzo DN boss revealed. The company said “Luzo DN welcomes with warmth, any business enquiry. Our team of professional will address any problem in Nigeria and for those that need our service within Africa, we will also carter for their needs.” 