 . Keep them in expensive highbrow mansions in Asaba . Okowa’s ex-aide caught with married woman in hotel . Govt won’t take it take it kindly with any official found in such acts- Commissioner Nosa Akenzua, Asaba Politicians and some government officials in Delta State have allegedly been showering monetary gifts and other goodies on women, including housewives in the state, in return for sexual gratification, The Point has learnt. The Point gathered that many of the politicians and government officials involved in such activities are aides to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. It was learnt that these politicians are comfortable with attracting and luring mainly housewives with expensive gifts and cash in their sexual escapades. Government House sources disclosed that these randy officials have lately run into trouble as Governor Okowa, who had been confronted with “concrete evidence,” including text messages from the husbands of some of the affected women, has resolved to take action against the these randy officials. The governor, it was learnt, had at many times warned some of his aides alleged to have been involved in such acts to desist, following complaints and other pieces of evidence from the husbands and relations of the women. Only recently, a former aide to the governor (names withheld) was allegedly caught in a hotel in Okpanam community with a housewife. The former aide was said to have allegedly lured the housewife, whose husband could not pay their children’s school fees, for sex with huge cash gift. They two lovers were alleged to have gone into the hotel for some rounds of sex, but were caught in the act. The official was alleged to have given his married lover the sum of N250,000 to enable her to offset her children’s school fees. Although such illicit relationship by government officials with married women is said to have become a common practice in Asaba, the state capital, Governor Okowa, insiders said, warned last week that any of his aides caught in such illicit affairs with housewives in the state would be summarily dismissed and handed over to the police for prosecution. The Point learnt that Asaba, the state capital, being a civil service town, is battling with the problem of unemployment, resulting in several women depending solely on politicians and government officials for their livelihood, especially in paying their bills, affording the high cost of living and settling their exorbitant house rent. It was learnt that a two-bedroom flat in the state capital goes for between N450,000 and N650,000 yearly. The Point, however, gathered that in most cases the unemployed women prefer renting two bedroom flats, instead of self-contained apartments, to enable them to have the free atmosphere to entertain the crop of randy politicians, who are usually their sponsors and benefactors. Investigations revealed that most of these unemployed women, who live on largesse from politicians and government officials, reside in expensive mansions in the highbrow areas of Asaba, which have become the hideouts for them and their male lovers to engage in their illicit affairs. Although the activities of these set of politicians are seen as a taboo contradicting the norm in many traditions, further investigation revealed that their modus operandi is to target unsuspecting housewives facing difficult financial situations and showering them with expensive gifts and huge cash, only to eventually suppress any resistance to such illicit relationship by such women. Only last week, a GSM phone technician, simply identified as Emeka, raised the alarm at the popular Kowen Plaza in Asaba, over alleged attempt by a top politician in the state (names withheld) to woo his wife with expensive gifts, including N250,000 cash gift. Emeka was said to have accused the politicians of an attempt to snatch his wife from him. Narrating his experience, Emeka said, “I have been in Asaba for eight years now. When I was coming to Asaba, my parents told me I might encounter some difficulties, especially because of women, and it has come to pass. “I married in Asaba and I opened a store for my wife upstairs at Kowen Plaza. I also do my work on the ground floor. There is this politician who always came to buy phone accessories from me. Before I knew it, he started giving my wife expensive gifts. He even gave her N250,000 and asked her to marry him and have a child for him. As if that was not enough, he told me he would pay me off and marry my wife! I reported him to his colleagues, who later begged me not to expose him to the public and they all condemned his act.” Apart from the politicians, some top civil servants are also alleged to be in the habit of ‘harassing’ housewives working as their subordinates in their offices for sex. These category of civil servants are said to have, in recent times, intensified their illicit act as they operate with impunity, not minding the consequences. But the state’s Commissioner for Information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, said none of Governor Okowa’s aides was involved in such illicit activities, saying, “All his (governor’s) aides are decent politicians and cannot in anyway be wayward, because oga will not take it kindly with anyone of them found in such activities.” Delta battles rising sexual violence, records 366 cases in 2018/2019
Meanwhile, the Delta State Government has stepped up campaigns against the increasing rate of sexual violence and rape in the state, warning that rapists or sexual abusers will henceforth face the full wrath of the law. The state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Peter Mrakpor, who confirmed steps taken by the state government, said that the state had in 2018/2019 recorded 366 cases of sexual violence and rape. Mrakpor added that the state government would impose stiffer punishments on offenders in accordance with the laws. While urging the media to do more of sensitisation with a view to collaborating with the state government, he regretted the alleged negligence of parents and the often strange attitude of the rape or sexually violated victims to come out with the true story. The commissioner assured that the state government would do everything possible to reduce the scourge in the state, especially among the underage and others. The state Commissioner of Police, Adeleke Adeyinka, had last week confirmed that the police were doing a lot to ensure that offenders are adequately punished in accordance with the laws. He also disclosed that over 31 cases of rape and sexual violence were in the last few months handled with many of the offenders arraigned in court. The state Coordinator of Girls Power Initiative, a Non-Governmental Organisation, Mrs. Ehita Ikoghode Aikpitanyi, regretted the increasing rate of sexual violence and rape in the state. She said that the situation had become alarming, especially among underage and minors. Investigation revealed that areas worse hit include Isoko South and North, Ika South and North East, Asaba, Ibusa, Ughelli communities and Effurun, among others. 