 The Oba of Lagos, His Majesty, Oba Rilwan Babatunde Akiolu I has commended the Goldberg Lager team for the brand’s sustained commitment to the celebration of the culture, values, and commerce of the people of Lagos and Southwest in general. Oba Akinolu gave the commendation when the Goldberg Lager beer brand team led by the Chairman of Nigeria Breweries Plc, Chief Kola Jamodu and accompanied by the Marketing Director, Emmanuel Oriaki, paid him a visit in order to present to him the newly reformulated Goldberg Lager beer and it’s new campaign, ‘Omoluabi’, ‘Mark of Respect’, which is hitched on celebrating the rich culture and heritage of the people. With the team on the visit were Omotunde Adenusi, Portfolio Manager, Mainstream Lager brands, Funso Ayeni, National Trade Marketing Manager, Wasiu Abiola, Head Media, Digital & Sponsorships, Maria Shadeko, Senior Brand Manager, Goldberg & Life, Funmilayo Ogunbodede, Brand Manager, Goldberg and Grace Udensi, Public Affairs Manager, Lagos. The monarch praised the Goldberg Lager team for reformulating the brand; making it better tasting with all-natural ingredients and no sugar added. His Majesty endorsed the new Goldberg Lager beer and expressed delight at the beer’s new ‘Omoluabi’, ‘Mark of Respect’ campaign; saying it resonates with the values and heritage of the people of the Southwest. Speaking on behalf of the brand team, the Portfolio Manager, Mainstream Brands, Nigeria Breweries Plc., Omotunde Adenusi, thanked Oba Akiolu for receiving the team and also endorsing Goldberg Lager as the preferred beer brand for the people of Lagos. Omotunde said it was necessary to visit the palace and present the newly reformulated Goldberg Lager beer to Oba Akiolu and his council for their blessings. “The new Goldberg Lager beer has been reformulated with focus on our consumers for better-tasting experience and with no sugar added. Goldberg Lager beer is smoother and richer tasting now and positioned to always celebrate the culture, pride, hard work and commerce of the people as reiterated in our new campaign, ‘Omoluabi”, “The Mark of Respect”, he added. Nigeria Breweries Plc, makers of Goldberg Lager, a brand deeply rooted in the cultural heritage and tradition of the South Westerners, recently launched the newly reformulated and repackaged beer to the delight of its consumers. The Senior Brand Manager, Goldberg & Life, Maria Shadeko, says, “the newly reformulated great-tasting Goldberg Lager beer with its exciting new look would further deepen the connection of consumers with their heritage, commerce, and values, hence our new campaign, The Mark of Respect, Omoluabi”. Goldberg Lager beer has over the years become synonymous with the celebration of the culture and festivals of the people, a tradition which is passed down from one generation to another to preserve the heritage and culture of the people. Funmilayo Ogunbodede, the Brand Manager, Goldberg Lager beer, says “the new smoother tasting and exciting look of the beer appeals to the next generation of consumers who share the values of respect, enterprise, and dignity”. The all-new Goldberg Lager beer features a new crown cork, the talking drum, a motif on its label as well as two beautifully designed medallions that speak to the excellent craftsmanship of the brand. All of these new aesthetic features powerfully reflects the stature of Goldberg Lager beer as the market leader. 