 The National Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, has nullified the election of Hon. Kolapo Korede Osunsanya (KKO), who represents Ijebu Central Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives on the platform of All Progressives Congress. Justice Wakkil Alkali Gana-led election petition tribunal cancelled elections in Ward 5, Unit 5 in Ijebu Ode LGA; Ward 10, Unit 3 in Odogbolu LGA and the entire Ward 8 in Ijebu North East LGA in the Federal Constituency. The Peoples Democratic Party candidate, Barrister Taiwo Shote had filled a petition challenging Osunsanya’s declaration as winner of the election by the Independent National Electoral Commission on the February 23rd, 2019 election. The tribunal, in its judgement, ordered that since the margin of lead and difference between the petitioner and 1st respondent is less than 4,000 while the total number of cancelled votes is 8,800, INEC ought not to have declared him the winner of the election – in line with the provisions of the Electoral Act. The tribunal held that the electoral commission should have declared the election as inconclusive and held rerun in the affected Ward and polling units. Consequently, the tribunal declared that Osunsanya was not duly elected and nullified the Certificate of Return issued to him by INEC and ordered that a rerun should be conducted within 90 days in Ward 5, Unit 5 in Ijebu Ode LGA; Ward 10, Unit 3 in Odogbolu LGA and the entire Ward 8 in Ijebu North East LGA. The Ijebu Central Federal Constituency consist of three local government areas, namely Ijebu Ode, Ijebu North East and Odogbolu. In his reaction to the judgment, Barrister Shote described it as victory for the rule of law. “I am very delighted at the judgment just delivered. I am happy that justice has been served. Although the wheel of justice grinds slowly, it grinds steadily and surely. It is victory for the rule of law and good people of Ijebu Central Federal Constituency. I thank God and the good people of Ijebu Ode, Ijebu North East and Odogbolu local government areas for their unflinching support thus far, and I promise not to disappoint them.” 