 SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA. Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has sought the approval of the State House of Assembly to borrow concessionary loan of N1.5bn from the Central Bank of Nigeria for Anchor Borrowers’ Programme with a single digit interest rate. The Speaker, Rt. Hon Olakunle Oluomo, made the disclosure while acknowledging the governor’s correspondence dated 6th of September, 2019, saying that the governor had indicated interest to participate in the CBN programme to also access credit facility for land clearing and other logistics requirements in the state. Oluomo said that the loan would go a long way to enhance wealth creation and generate more employments for youth in the state, noting that the loan when accessed by the governor would also reduced crimes and criminality among the youth and as well improve the living conditions of the participants in the state He said, “This will greatly enhanced the wealth creation and employment generation efforts for our teeming youth, building capacity, reduce crimes and generally improve the living conditions of the participants.” Oluomo said Abiodun indicated in his letter that the main aim of his administration is to ensure a sustainable economic development of the state and individual prosperity of the citizenry, agriculture and food security with emphasis on boosting production and optimization of the value chain. The letter reads in part; “Funds that will be accessed under the scheme will be utilised by farmers, organised into clusters across the state with particular focus on cassava, rice and maize production; consequently I write to seek the concurrence of the House in support of our request to participate in the programme”. The Speaker therefore directed the Director General, Debt Management Office in the State, Economic Adviser to the Governor, Permanently Secretary and Directors in the State Ministry Agriculture to appear before the lawmakers for further briefing on the basis of the proposed credit facility on Tuesday, 17th September, 2019 at the Assembly’s Conference Room by 12 noon. He also acknowledged the Governor’s letter proposing a bill for a law to provide for the Establishment of the Ogun State Sports Trust Fund and connected purposes” and another seeking “to provide for the Establishment of the Ogun State Sports Commission and for connected purposes. Meanwhile, two bills scaled through first reading in the hallowed Chamber of the Assembly. The bills including HB. No 023/OG/ 2019- The Magistrates’ Court (Amendment) Law, 2019 and HB. No 024/OG/ 2019- The Customary Courts (Amendment) Law, 2019 were read by the Ag.Clerk, Deji Adeyemo before the lawmakers. 