….Set For Commonwealth University, London Graduate School Honours The Association of National Accountants of Nigeria has conferred the Fellowship of the professional body on Mr. David O. Oyetunji, a Director at the National Automotive Design and Development Council. This development is coming even as accolades and commendations continue to pour in for the professional, career and academic achievements of the new ANAN Fellow. It was gathered that Oyetunji, who is the Director of Finance and Accounts at NADDC, which is a parastatal under the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investments, is a professional accountant of repute with a PhD in view. Oyetunji bagged the Fellowship of the prestigious accounting body on 26th, September 2019. According to experts and professionals, the Fellowship of the Association of National Accountants is described as the climax of the accounting profession, Oyetunji, it was learnt, was also recently conferred with the Africa’s Patriotic Personality Award 2019. Furthermore, the NADDC Director will in October this year be conferred with the Honorary Doctoral Degree in Leadership from the Commonwealth University and London Graduate School. The new ANAN Fellow, David Oyetunji, it would be recalled has worked extensively across sectors, and has held several positions across boards, including as Data Processing Officer, Finance Officer, Loan Recovery Head, Treasury Officer, Investment Officer and an Assistant Branch Manager. He was also a Research Economist, a Consultant and General Manager, a Senior Accountant, Senior Auditor, Principal Auditor, Assistant Chief Auditor, Chief Auditor in both the private and public sectors. Oyetunji was also an Assistant Director (Audit), Deputy Director (Finance), Director Special Duties and currently the Director (Finance and Accounts), at the NADDC. On his way to becoming a recipient of these awards through dint of hard work, focus and dedication to duty and his professional calling, Oyetunji has worked at Federal Ministry of Transport and Aviation, Meteorological Department Services, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs. Private sector experience for the ANAN Fellow is recognized, with his time at Open Gate Finance Limited, the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, and Diamond Foam Limited. In terms of academics and qualifications, Oyetunji is an example that others, particularly top officials in public and private service must emulate. The ANAN Fellow has a B.Sc. (Hons) in Economics from the prestigious Obafemi Awolowo University, Ife, an M. Sc. Economics, University of Lagos, and currently rounding off his Ph. D in Economics at the Abuja University. He also holds a Post Graduate Diploma in Accounting from the famed College of Accountancy, Jos. A consummate professional, Oyetunji is a member of several professional bodies including the Nigeria Institute of Management (MNIM), Certified National Accountant (CNA) Fellow Certified National Accountant (FCNA), Fellow Chartered Institute of Management Auditor (FCIMA). Recognizing these professional, career and academic achievements, the NADDC Director will in November be conferred as a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Systems Accountant, fresh from his conferment as a Fellow of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria. ANAN is one of the two professional accountancy associations with regulatory authority in Nigeria, the other being the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria. ANAN was founded on 1 January 1979 and was incorporated on 28 September 1983. The Association was chartered on 25 August 1993 by Decree 76 of 1993.  