 TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A firm, Zenith Business Suits Lagos, in partnership with Osun State Government will be organising a marathon event tagged; “Osun Heritage International Half Marathon” to honour and commemorate the one year anniversary of Governor Gboyega Oyetola in office. The organisers of the maiden event said on Wednesday that 8,000 dollars would be given to each winner of the male and female marathon categories holding in Osogbo on November 23, 2019. The race Coordinator and organiser, Aderemi Adewale, made this known during the press conference and logo unveiling of the marathon event in Osogbo. He said the marathon is scheduled to hold with 20,000 participants expectedly, both locally and internationally. According to Adewale, “One million naira would be given to the first male and female in the national price category while N750,000 would also be given to each of the first male and female indigenes of Osun who makes it to the finish line, in the Osun indigene category. “Athletes/participants will run a total of 21.5km race through Osogbo major roads, starting from the state secretariat roundabout in Abere and terminating the race at Freedom Park, Old Garage Area in Osogbo,” he explained. To give room for easy participation, he noted that the registration fee for the marathon was put at N1,000 and that the registration form had been made available across the state local government and all tertiary institutions in Osun. According to Adewale, security, live camera coverage , ambulances and hospital care arrangements had already been made for the event and that hopefully, they intend to sustain the marathon and make it an annual event. In his address, Biyi Odunlade, the Supervisor of Osun Ministry of Social Protection, Sports and Special Needs, said the marathon programme was linked to the first year anniversary of the state governor because sport is important to living and governance. Odunlade said “Whether as independent entity or organisation, we all need sports to survive.” He said the governor was approached with the idea of the marathon, and being a sports loving governor, he gave his support. To him, the governor has never neglected sports while the marathon was to praise and appreciate him and to also sensitise the general public on the importance of physical exercise. “We are preaching to the people that ‘don’t die young’, it’s not always about looking for money, take time to walk or run around your house to keep yourself and health safe. “We are organising this marathon to let people have a sound mind in a sound body,” he said. 