 The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwolu on Tuesday commended the Christian Social Responsibility efforts of the Redeemed Christian Church of God under the leadership of the General Overseer Pastor E.A Adeboye. Speaking during the commissioning of the 12-Classroom blocks built by RCCG Tabernacle of David and the Resettlement Healthcare Centre which was refurbished and equipped by the same Parish, Sanwolu said “My administration is not going to walk away from its responsibility of catering for the educational need of every child that is of school age. “We will give our children the opportunity to attend quality schools that will not too far away from them. This morning, I gave a directive to the Commissioner of Education that all school owned by the state government be equipped with well trained teachers that will help us to deliver quality training to our children in line with development agenda of my administration” Pastor Kayode Pitan, who doubles as the Pastor in charge of RCCG Tabernacle of David and Assistant Pastor in Charge of Region said the decision to build the school was in response to the lack of any public school in the area, which made children in the community to travel considerable distance to attend school, exposing them to dangers like road accidents.  This, he said, is in line with the mandate of the General Overseer, Pastor E.A Adeboye for RCCG to positively impact its communities and society at large. Speaking on behalf of the General Overseer of RCCG, the Special Assistant to the G.O on CSR, Pastor Idowu Iluyomade said these CSR investments stem from their continued resolve to be of service to humanity in general, and their host community in particular.  Iluyomade said it is also driven by the mantra at the RCCG to touch people’s lives, with emphasis on improving standards of living by providing good education and health through infrastructural development. In addition, Pastor Iluyomade went further to highlight other various intervention of the church through its global charity – His Love Foundation over the years in Lagos State. According to him; “In May 2017, an Intensive Care Unit was donated to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital and as of today, the ICU has been of benefit to close to 300 people to the glory of God. “Also, in the area of health, we have the Healing Stripes Hospital, Healing Stripes Dialysis Centre and Cancer Screening Centre. “Three dialysis machines at N4 million each for General Hospital, Gbagada. “These facilities were built and equipped to provide subsidized and at sometimes completely free services to Lagosians and Nigerians at large. We have been able to impact over 50,000 people through these centres.  “At the Kirikiri maximum prison a referral hospital was built and equipped with modern health facilities. In the same prison, we installed 40 solar powered street lights at Kirikiri Prisons/Naval Town Road. “On a weekly basis, we feed well over 20,000 inmates in the same prison. “In the same prison, we have provided access to education for the inmates and many have had the opportunity to study and sit for their WAEC and JAMB examinations whilst serving their terms. Forms are bought for them and some of them are enrolled in the National Open University. We do this completely free. “In the area of education, our schools project has impacted communities in Lagos State. We have been able to equip libraries, provided free meals, free uniforms and free tuition in the following schools: Redeemers Junior Secondary School, Ito-Omu, Epe, Redeemers Senior Secondary School, Ito-Omu, Epe, Hope Centre, Makoko, Liberty School, Maryland and Ajah Communities as well as the Redeemers Nursery and Primary School, Oko-Abe. 9. Provision of vocational training for 100 drivers to help in addressing the dearth of skilled technical and vocational manpower in Lagos. The training was carried out in partnership with AA Rescue and the Lagos State Government. “Design, installation and commissioning of solar powered traffic lights on Ligali Ayorinde Street and Akingbolagbe/COD Church Road in Victoria Island, Lagos. These lights have helped to alleviate the traffic gridlock on the Lekki Toll Highway alternative routes that run close to the church. “In conjunction with Arise (the Women’s platform), we have also provided free medical services, food stuff, water and clothes for some internally displaced people (arising from the Boko Haram crises).” Pastor Iluyomade, who was represented by Pastor Africanus concluded, “We know that to love God and to love our neighbours as ourselves, therein lies the whole duty of man. The bedrock of motivation therefore is Love for God and for humanity. Hence, there is a compelling sense of responsibility to our community and individuals. Our CSR projects, programmes and initiatives therefore attest to our sacrifices of love.” 