Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State on Thursday inaugurated a 26-man transition committee that will work to ensure transition of power between the outgoing and the incoming governments in the state. The committee, which included 16 members from the outgoing government and ten from the incoming government of Engineer Oluwaseyi Makinde of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has only one month to complete its assignment. Ajimobi, while inaugurating the committee at the Executive Chambers, Governor’s Office, Secretariat Ibadan, said that he was happy to be the first governor to formally set up a transition committee in the state. The committee members drawn from the outgoing government included the Secretary to the state government, Alhaji Olalekan Alli, who is to serve as Chairman, Head of Service, Mrs. Hannah Ogunesan, former Head of Service. Mr. Soji Eniade, Attorney General, Mr. Oluwaseun Abimbola, Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Mr. Toye Arulogun. Others are: Chief Isacc Ishola Commissioner for (Environment), Oyewole Oyewumi (Agriculture), Azeez Adeduntan (Health), Isaac Omodewu (Lands and Housing), Abimbola Kolade (Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs), Adeniyi Olowofela (Education, Science and Technology) and Mr. Abimbola Adekanbi (Finance, Budget and Planning). The rest are: Dr. Isiaka Kolawole, Dr. Ayandele Ayanyinka, Mr. Segun Bolarinwa and Mr. D.O. Olatunde, who is to serve as secretary. Members of the committee drawn from the incoming government are: Senator Hosea Ayoola Agbola, Chief Bisi Ilaka, Hon. Debo Ogundoyin, Miss Lolade Ajibola and Mr. Adeniyi Afeez. Others are; Barrister Semiu Ashamu, Dr. E.V. Bello, Mr Wale Adepoju, Hon. Temi Adibi and Miss Oyedijo Bosede Famola. Ajimobi, while speaking at the event, said that the main function of the committee is to liaise with the outgoing and the incoming governments to ensure smooth transition. He said, “This is the first government that will inaugurate a transition committee between the incumbent and the incoming governments in the state. Let me recall that when I was elected, we never had such committee. “This is a demonstration of our strong belief in the the tenets of democracy. We had no other country, we had no other state and this is our state and we must develop it. “The committee will liaise between the outgoing and the incoming governments in the state to ensure smooth transition. The committee will organise a befitting and colourful handover ceremony. “There is no doubt that we have raised the bar of in the state. We will be leaving Oyo state better than the way we met it.” 