Dr. Daniel Kolawole Olukoya, the General Overseer and founder of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM), is set to receive an honor well deserved at the 50th convocation ceremony of the reputable University of Lagos billed to take place from April 1 to 5, 2019. The pastor, author and televangelist is an outstanding graduate product of the famous university who values education and a man after God’s heart. Over the years, he has exhibited great philanthropy by supporting and sponsoring the less privileged students in Nigeria beyond the walls of his reputable bible believing church MFM.
As a first class graduate from the University of Lagos in 1980 with an outstanding degree in microbiology, he proceeded on scholarship to the University of Reading in Reading, Berkshire, England for his Doctorate degree (PhD) in Molecular Genetics. He, thereafter, returned to Nigeria and worked as a geneticist at the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR), Yaba-Lagos. As a researcher, and to his credit, he has published over 80 scientific publications. Beyond the academics, his research and work on cloning of genes is very remarkable making him the first person to clone genes in this part of the world. In a benevolent act, Dr. Daniel Olukoya and his adorable God-fearing wife established the Daniel & Fola Biotechnology Foundation, a registered NGO, to train young Nigerian citizens in molecular biology and biotechnology. This is an absolutely outstanding effort from the unassuming man of God with a view to helping mostly indigent youths. It’s no gain saying that the pastor and founder of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries values people’s lives more than any material thing in the world and  cherishes education so much so that he sponsors thousands of students on scholarship, privately, through his ministries.
It is, therefore, indisputable that he is an honorable man that deserves the great honor from the University of Lagos as he has also supervised over 30 PhD students, most of who are presently doing very well in their chosen fields around the world. Those in the know, say it is not a surprise that the Governing Council and Senate of the University has identified Dr. Daniel Kolawole Olukoya as befitting of being conferred with an honorary degree at this year’s convocation ceremony where the citadel of learning, will also be graduating 12,811 students this year.
Apart from the acclaimed scholar and clergyman, Dr. D.K Olukoya, other notable personalities such as Mr. Jim Ovia, the founder of Zenith Bank and Mr. Lateef Okunnu, the former Minister of Works and Housing in Nigeria would also be conferred with honors. On record, Dr. D.K Olukoya has received many awards such as: Special Awards for Excellence in Research and Administration (SAFERA 2012); Top Great African Achievers Leader’s Legacy Awards, South-Africa 2013; Outstanding Christian Leader’s Awards, Quintessence African Leader of Integrity Merit Award 2014; Humanitarian Personality of the Year 2013 Award; Merit Award at the 6th Herbert Macaulay Memorial Lecture; United Nations Humanitarian International Award; Zik Legacy Prize for True Leadership National Award; The Distinguished African Icon Award 2015 and many more. Dr. Olukoya, beyond his degrees and awards, the preacher of the word of God believes that the most important thing today is to ensure that those firsts in God’s kingdom do not become the last and miss salvation. 