….Demands stiffer penalty for  drug counterfeiters, importers In line with the mandate of President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control has destroyed 189  truckloads  of  expired, substandard and unwholesome medical and food products valued at N2.8bn at Sagamu dump site, Ogun  State. The  substandard products  which included  the  banned Tramadol with a  street value of  N283,500,000.00 , are said to be the largest quantity of unwholesome products  that the agency has ever destroyed. The Buhari administration  had mandated  the agency to ensure that the health of Nigerians  was safeguarded. Addressing journalists during the destruction exercise weekend, Director- General of NAFDAC, Prof. Moji Adeyeye, said in line with  the mandate, the agency stepped up its prevention, detection and response activities towards the elimination of   unwholesome foods  ,substandard and falsified products as well counterfeiting of all NAFDAC regulated products in the preceding year by training and retraining of relevant  staff of the agency. Adeyeye disclosed that the  products were seized  from  different parts of the country over a period of one year. Giving insight into the products, she said: “The products being destroyed today are made up of substandard and falsified medical products, unwholesome processed food products, unsafe cosmetics, counterfeits and other expired NAFDAC regulated products seized by the agency from manufacturers, importers and distributors. “Also up for destruction are expired products voluntarily handed over to the agency by compliant companies, non-governmental organizations and trade unions. “The estimated street value of the products scheduled for destruction today is N2, 675,896,538.20. While the street value of the banned Tramadol is N283,500,000.00) which is about N2.8bn.” Adeyeye noted that  NAFDAC had taken giant strides  in the fight against counterfeiting  in Nigeria in the first quarter of 2019. According to  her,  the investigation and enforcement officers  of the agency  had arraigned  one  Mr. Luke Mbah, an importer, at the Federal High Court, Lagos for smuggling banned and fake 488 cartons of Barcadin with Codeine (cough syrup), fake 207cartons of Afrodiac Diclofenac Potassium tablets among other  fake drugs under his custody. The NAFDAC boss also disclosed that the  agency had  arraigned one Mr. MadubuikeChukwunonye who allegedly sold cough syrup with codeine to a BBC undercover agent in April, 2018  at the Federal High Court, Lagos. “One businessman, Mr. Ebenezer Arimiwem, was convicted of the manufacture, distribution, packaging, labelling and processing of different brands of Counterfeit Cosmetic Products and was sentenced to fifteen months in prison without an option of fine”, she added. Citing the  health implications of fake drugs  , Adeyeye  appealed to the judiciary arm of government  to apply stiffer sanctions to deter counterfeiters because of the danger they have posed, continue and still pose to the society and all consumers of their dangerous products. She also urged the National Assembly to pass the Counterfeit Medical Products Bill  in order to  strengthen the agency’s fight against counterfeiting in Nigeria. Calling for increased inter agency collaboration  in the fight against fake drugs,  Adeyeye  noted: “It is pertinent to mention that the fight is capital intensive and we need the support of the states, local government councils and all credible and responsible corporate bodies.” In his remarks, Director, Investigation and Enforcement Directorate, Mr. Kingsley Ejiofor,  also demanded  stiffer penalty for drug counterfeiters in the country to serve as deterrent to others,  insisting that more punitive punishments were required to tackle  the menace . Ejiofor also  urged  Nigerians to rise against the challenge by preaching the gospel against counterfeiting everywhere they go. 