Imo State governor-elect, Rt Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, has warned sycophants in the state to steer clear his administration saying there will be no room for their antics. Ihedioha gave the warning at the state  secretariat of the PDP, along Okigwe Road, Owerri shortly after receiving his certificate of return with his deputy, Gerald Irona, and the 27 elected members of the state House of Assembly at the state secretariat of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He said, “I am not a man of this and that. I have grown the courage to tell you when you are right or wrong. God will always grant me the grace to know what is right and wrong”. He enjoined the people of the state to appreciate the fact that there is only one Imo State and appealed to all the aggrieved parties to drop their gauntlets and support his administration. The governor-elect, who extended his olive branch to his co-contenders in the governorship election in the state, assured them that his administration would employ measures to improve the economy of the state. He disclosed that his government would  raise the stakes by boosting the Internally Generated Revenue base of the state and reposition the local government administration once more to the advantage of the grassroots people. He promised to run a responsive and responsible government that would ensure the independence of the judiciary to guarantee speedy and unbiased  dispensation of justice in the state. Ihedioha, who disclosed that a transition committee made up of reputable stakeholders would soon be constituted for the smooth take off of his administration, commended the Imo electorate for the confidence reposed in him and his deputy promising that he would not let them down. While presenting the certificates of return to the governor-elect and other elected officeholders in the state, Prof. Okey Ibeanu, INEC Commissioner for Imo/Abia, urged them on the need to maintain their integrity and dedication to duty saying that their victory was a mark of trust in them. 