The All Progressives Congress, APC, in Bayelsa State has kicked against the approval of life pension for the state lawmakers by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP-dominated State House of Assembly. The state parliament was said to have approved monthly pensions to speakers, deputy speakers and other members of assembly. The bill reportedly approved N500,000 post service monthly pension to speakers of the assembly. The deputy speakers are to earn monthly pension of N200,000 while other 24-member capacity assembly will earn N100,000 each. To qualify for the speakership pension of N500,000 monthly, the person must have served for two years and above.
learnt of a planned law being pushed by the House of Assembly prescribing monthly post-service life pensions of between N0.1 million and N0.5 million for members of the House. The APC said it has also observed how “the strange idea, which was proposed as a bill and passed by the House on Wednesday, has set the public pulse racing.” In a statement to media houses on Thursday by Doifie Buokoribo, the State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, in Yenagoa, the party described the bill as unjust, ungodly and self-serving. The statement added, “APC Bayelsa completely rejects this life pension bill for members of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly.” APC said it was “unsympathetic for members of the House of Assembly to seek to enhance their own lives at the expense of the vast majority of Bayelsa people living in pain and penury.” Buokoribo described the life pension bill as an “unspeakable crime against our people.” It added, “APC has been at the forefront of efforts to enthrone a regime of better life for the people of Bayelsa State. And we have led a robust opposition to the current system of anti-people governance in the state for close to eight years. “Regarding this latest move by the House of Assembly, we again say that the idea is avaricious, wicked, and insensitive. By proposing such a law, the lawmakers have merely portrayed themselves as a people who feel no concern for the feelings of their suffering constituents. They have once again confirmed that they are in cahoots with the executive in the serial impoverishment of the people of Bayelsa State. “APC advises the legislature to withdraw the obnoxious pension bill and avoid the appalling crime against the people of Bayelsa State “In the event of the legislature’s refusal to heed this solemn advice, we appeal to Governor Henry Seriake Dickson, if he is still in touch with his essential humanity, to refuse assent to the pension bill when it is transmitted to him. “Failing this, the party calls on the people of Bayelsa State to embark on a campaign of peaceful resistance against the rogue assembly and the poverty regime of Governor Dickson.” 