The Presidential candidate of the Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party, Mr. Tope Fasua, has said that this year’s general elections have shown that Nigerians are not ready for any positive change and that the Independent National Electoral Commission, as presently constituted, cannot conduct a credible, free and fair elections. Speaking with The Point, Fasua said many of the young presidential candidates in the last election and the new parties thought Nigerians were yearning for change, hence they stepped into the race but the result of the elections and the attitude of Nigerians during and after the election showed clearly that they were not ready for positive change. He described the INEC’s performance in the election as abysmal, saying what they called general election was nothing but a charade, a joke and a travesty. “Initially we thought INEC should be given a pass mark in the presidential election even when the result was dismal but what we witnessed in the National Assembly election and gubernatorial elections showed that INEC, as presently constituted, cannot conduct credible elections that will lead the country to a glorious future. “I however put the blame on the doorstep of the average Nigerian. Well, if you say you want a different country and people step up to say they have ideas and you gave them three per cent of your votes, which was what actually happened, then you deserve what you get.  We saw the results of governorship and national assembly elections, what we had was much more problems. And in actual fact, what they called election was series of brigandage, thuggery, violence and open deployment of money. In fact, we are sinking fast into serous signs of ignominy, it has never been like that before and the nation has become an embarrassment. “I am disappointed with the election not because I thought I will win and I didn’t win but the general conduct was bad and unacceptable.  Even some members of the ruling APC are complaining bitterly about the elections in some states and whatever happened in the states are reflections of what happened in the centre.  We see results being written everywhere. “INEC and the ruling party have blood on their hands and there is no way this election can lead the country to any serious glory destination. “What we have seen was open deployment of money to the electorate, and the people at the grass roots are battling with poverty and so they grabbed the offer of money. It is sad,” he said. 