“My life is finished, I have killed my only brother whose wife will give birth any moment from now; I am ruined forever.” These were the words of a 45-year-old man known as Mallam ldris Aliyu, of Daka’agi village in Wushishi Local Government Area of Niger State, who is in custody at the State Police headquarters for allegedly hacking to death his younger brother, Aliyu Aliyu. The suspect was arrested by a team of policemen attached to Wushishi Division, having trailed him after a tip-off. Findings by our correspondent showed that the suspect used a machete to inflict a deep cut on Aliyu’s neck, which led to his death. The deceased, it was also gathered, was lying down on a bench and listening to his transistor radio, when the elder brother snuck up on him and dealt him a killer blow with a machete. It was learnt that Idris killed his younger brother over the sum of N100,000 the younger brother had borrowed from a friend for him to renovate his house, which he (Aliyu) refused to pay back, despite pleas by Idris. The brothers, according to investigation, were farmers who had lived together peacefully in the same compound with their wives and children and did combined farm work until the incident happened. In an interview, Idris said, “My brother and I had been living together since our parents gave birth to us as a united family. After the harvest, I told him the need to settle the person I borrowed the money from, because I had already told him that the money would be paid after we harvested our farm produce. But my late brother refused to listen to me. When I insisted, he blatantly told me that we were not going to sell any of our farm produce to pay back the loan. “Though what I did was wrong, I lost my temper and pulled out my machete and gave him a deep cut on his neck, resulting in his death.  I had no option. My pain now is that, I killed my only brother, whose wife is pregnant and could give birth any moment from now due to pressure from the person I borrowed money from. Oh, how I wish I could turn back the hands of the clock.” Lamenting his predicament, the suspect, who has two wives and 13 children, was full of regret for killing his only brother, blaming the devil for pushing him into committing such act. Confirming the incident, the police Public Relations Officer, Muhammad Abubakar, noted that when the policemen got to the deceased’s house, following a tip-off, they saw his corpse lying in a pool of his blood. He said the matter would be charged to court after a thorough investigation. 