The newly elected Deans of Schools in Yaba College of Technology (Yabatech), have been charged to provide harmonious space for teaching and learning. The Rector of the institution, Engr. Obafemi Omokungbe, gave the charge while addressing the new Deans recently. Omokungbe, who congratulated the new Deans on their new statuses, noted that the office is saddled with enormous responsibilities as representatives of the Reactor in their various schools. He said, “As Deans, you are now the clearing house of your schools, therefore, see every staff as your staff including those who contested against you. Observe the law of balance in all your activities as equilibrium in nature brings about harmony and peace. “As chairmen of your schools’ boards, be open-minded and treat each case on its merit. Be transparent and show respect for all shades of opinions. The ultimate, however, is for you to always play by the extant rules and
regulations”. He added that Deans of Schools must take their places in the scheme of things and be held accountable for the activities of their staff and
students. The Dean, School of Environmental Studies, Dr. Julius Oke, who responded  on behalf of the new Deans, called for the inauguration of a retreat to sensitise the new deans on the nitty-gritty of their role expectations. Oke said, “I want, on behalf of the Deans, to pledge support to the Rector and the management. As major stakeholders in this project called Yabatech, we are behind
you. “When we say this, it is in two ways. As we pledge our supports and seek for improved management, we want the management to support, encourage and be patience with us knowing that as stakeholders we would not want this project
to fail.” Oke, who said whenever there was disagreement on grey areas, dialogue should be embraced, called for the provision of relevant tools for the smooth running of academic activities. The new Deans of Schools are Dean, School of Arts and Printing, Dr. Adekunle Adeyemi; Dean, School of Environmental Studies, Dr. Julius Oke; Dean, School of Science, Mr. Aderohunmu Joseph; Dean, School of Technology, Dr. Peter Okolie;
Dean, School of Liberal Studies, Bar. Ikpen Willington and Dean, School of Technical Education, Mr. Olalekan
Alaba. Others are Dean, School of Management and Business Studies, Mr. Ojo Williams; Dean, School of Engineering, Engr. Ize Balogban and Dean, Student Affairs, Mrs. Olajumoke Shobande. 