The All Progressives Congress, APC in Rivers State has declared its readiness to work with Governor Nyesom Wike-led administration to move the state forward. But the APC added a caveat that it will work with Wike if only the Governor will show some level of commitment on his extension of olive branch to members of other political parties. The APC maintained that the protection of lives and properties and development of Rivers people and its residents were top priorities of the party. Senator representing Rivers East Senatorial District, Senator Andrew Uchendu who read out the position of the APC at the party secretariat on Aba road said the APC is worried about the increase of insecurity in Rivers state, declaring that the party will do everything to support the current government in the restoration of peace and security. The Rivers East senator said it is the expectation of APC that the broadcast by Governor Wike will end all forms of hate speech and restore peace and security in the state. “We cannot continue to toy with the lives of our people or take them for granted. A key indicator of good governance is the protection of the lives and property of our people. To achieve this, Wike can draw from the experience of his predecessor, Rotimi Amaechi who met a similar security situation and infrastructural decay but was able to address these challenges to move the state forward. Then, Governor Wike was the Chief of Staff and can personally attest to that. “Life in Rivers state has become brutish and worthless with reports of kidnapping and killings every other day in the media. We expect the Governor to take up to the issue of security of lives and property. We can offer immediate help to show our commitment to solve this problem. “The revitalization of the C4i Security arrangement, rehabilitation of sons and daughters of Rivers state that are roaming the streets of foreign lands because the scholarship of their state government is no longer there, re-activation of the Greater Port Harcourt project, completion of some laudable projects of the former Governor, Rotimi Amaechi because millions of money has been invested, and another critical one is the issue of unemployment. “Let us assure Governor Wike of our sincerity that the All Progressive Congress will never shy away from doing all it can to ensure a more secured, peaceful and prosperous Rivers State. “We, therefore, join our forces to a peaceful and desired Rivers state; one in which every stakeholder is treated equally. We want to believe for the first time that Governor Wike is sincere because Rivers state must move forward,” Senator Uchendu said. Responding to questions, Senator Uchendu disclosed that APC was not sponsoring any case in the tribunal in the just concluded general elections since it did not field any candidate but was more interested in the peace and development of Rivers state, rather than individual interest. Recall that Governor Nyesom Wike had immediately after his declaration for second term in office made a live broadcast where he extended hands of fellowship to other political parties. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi who doubles as the leader of APC in the state on his Easter Message also called for peace and unity as well as support for the development of Rivers state. 