The Outgoing Commissioner of Police in Ogun, Ahmed Iliyasu on Tuesday urged police officers in the state to give their full support and cooporation to the new commissioner of police in the state, CP Bahir Makama. Iliyasu made this known this during the former hand over ceremony held at POWA Hall at the Police Headquarters, Eleweran, Abeokuta, the state capital. He said that unless the police officers give their new boss maximum cooporation, it would be difficult for them to record huge success of crime fighting in the state. The former commissioner while thanking the officers for supporting him during his tenure as the commissioner of police in the state, admonished them not to relent in their efforts in combating crime. Iliyasu who advised the the new commissioner to work together with the Police Community Relations Committee, PCRC, in the state also urged  him make use of the carrot and stick method with the officers in order to get successful crime fighting operations in the state. He said ” I know you are a professional police man, you should use carrot and sometimes use sick. I appeal to all of you to give this gentleman man maximum cooporation than you give me” “I thanked God that we came in peace, we have achieved peace and we are leaving in peace, we have introduced new security architecture, we have work assiduously, Ogunstate is according to statistics is adjudge the most peaceful state.” he noted. On his part Makama, however call on the police officers to support and cooporate with him so as to reduce crime drastically in the state, saying that his own time is the beginning of a more peaceful session in the state. He said” I want it assure you that we are stating the beginning of a more peaceful session. I want to assure the people of Ogun that we shall serve with credibility and fear of God. “I am bringing on board peace more peace, crime free less less crime rate, and to improve on what we have met on ground to ensure peace and tranquility in the state.” he added 