An angry man has threatened to kill his younger brother in Lagos for allegedly having carnal knowledge of his wife. The angry man, identified simply as Bobby, claimed that he met his younger brother, Jude, making love with his wife in his own bedroom. Jude who is now afraid for his life, narrated how the devil took control of him and his brother’s wife, Caroline, and they had illicit sex. According to Jude, who resides at Wilmer Crescent, Olodi- Apapa, Lagos, he had gone to Layinka area, Ajegunle to visit his elder brother, but unfortunately he had gone to work. Jude said when he exchanged pleasantries with Caro, she pleaded with him not to go yet. Jude said, “I was in the sitting room when Caro called me that she wanted to show me something that I would like. I was wondering what she wanted to show me. At first, I had wanted her to bring whatever it was to the sitting room. But something told me to go and see what it was all about. Immediately I stepped into the bedroom, she held my hand and said, ‘My husband, please sit.’ And she pushed me slowly and I sat in the chair. “I was still wondering what she wanted to show me when she suddenly pulled off her wrapper. And behold, her nakedness was staring at me and I was also staring at what I saw. It was temptation. I wanted to run out of the room but something told me to enjoy the moment. The woman sat on my legs. I was nervous but now eager to explore. My whole body was charged and it had gotten to a point of no return. The devil had taken control of us, I knew. But I believed it would be a secret between both of us. I carried her to the bed and we were having sex when my elder brother returned to the house and opened the door with his spare key. He caught us
red-handed.” “It was as if the ground would open and devour me. I was alarmed. My elder brother was also alarmed. He did not believe his eyes. He is like a father to me, having assisted me in so many ways, including cash and advice. I quickly wore my trousers and took my shirt in my hands and ran out of the room, leaving behind my underwear,” Jude added. Bobby was said to have turned his wife into a punching bag but she was rescued by neighbours, who pleaded with him not kill the woman but seek his family’s
advice. One of his neighbours, Mama Kelechi, told The Point, “Bobby would have killed his wife if not for the neighbours’ intervention. Bobby would have strangled his wife. He ordered her to pack out from the apartments immediately. He also vowed to kill his brother, Jude, for bringing him to shame after all he did for him. I heard that Jude has not slept in his own apartment at Wilmer because he is now a fugitive hiding from his elder brother. I will not blame Jude. He later told us everything. “The woman was the person that tempted him, after all. Any man can fall prey, especially when they see the nakedness of a beautiful woman like Caro begging them to come and perform.” When our correspondent met Bobby at Layinka Street, Ajegunle, and inquired why he had to be so angry with his brother to the extent of threatening to kill him, he exploded, “Who told you? So what Jude did is no secret anymore. He must pay for his sin. I have disowned him already. Even in the village in Delta State, I will ensure he is banished. But I beg, who are you? And who told you the story?” However, when he realised he was speaking to a journalist, he screamed, “My God! So you are a journalist. Please keep out of this matter. It is a family issue.” 