 As part of efforts to improve the  lives of women and children in Lagos State, stakeholders in maternal and child health in the state,  have called on   the  governor-elect, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to invest massively in family planning services to enable  more women and girls have access to modern contraceptive methods  of their choice. The importance of family planning based on available evidence, they say, cannot be over-emphasised, stressing that it strengthens  the health of the woman on every side. The stakeholders made the plea during a three- Day Capacity Building Workshop on Investigative Journalism  organised by Pathfinder International for health journalists in the state recently, with the aim to bringing critical family planning issues to the front burner. According to them,  family planning  saves the lives of mothers and can help reduce maternal mortality by 40 percent, affirming that family planning/child spacing methods,  allow women to rest between pregnancies  in order to regain their health. In their separate  presentations, the  stakeholders urged  Sanwo-Olu to address some specific  problems confronting family planning services and  its access by women and girls in the state. They  identified  major barriers to access to family planning services in Lagos  state  to include; non-release of funds for consumables  and logistics- transportation of  family planning commodities to health facilities where they are needed, shortage of health workers, non functional primary healthcare centres,  poor health workers’ attitude, lack  of youth-friendly centres, among others. Citing the above hindrances, they  advised the in-coming administration on the need to proritise family planning in its  health agenda to ensure that family planning contraceptives and other services were available free of charge  in all its  health facilities across the state. In his presentation which dwelt on family planning funding in Lagos State, one of the stakeholders and  a member of the Public Health Sustainable Advocacy  Initiative , Pastor Chibuike Amaechi, appealed to Sanwo-Olu  to address the family planning funding gaps in the state,  by  fulfilling  his promise of  increasing the health budget of the state  from eight percent to 15 percent during  his electioneering campaign in the just concluded general elections. He said  the incoming  administration  had  in  its manifesto promised  to increase  health allocation to  15% which he said would impact on the family planning services in the state if fulfilled. Amaechi also wants the governor-elect to look into the delay and non release of  family planning  budgeted funds in the state. He revealed  that  out of  N236m earmarked  for family planning  in 2018 only N48m was released,  lamenting that the state was experiencing  a huge gap in terms of budget release, urging the governor-elect  to fill in the gaps after his inauguration  on May 29, 2019. On his part, the Country Director of Pathfinder International Nigeria, Dr. Farouk Jega, urged the incoming administration to ensure a steady flow of funding into family planning services to improve access. Jeja said it was important Lagos remained a centre of excellence in access to family planning. Commenting on the importance of quality service to clients, the Country Director stressed the need to invest in training and retraining of health workers on family planning services, adding that it was critical in addressing some controversial issues affecting uptake of services such as side effects, confidentiality especially among the adolescents. According to him,  a knowledgeable service provider will make a difference in the uptake of family planning among adolescents in the country. Speaking on adolescent and youth access to family planning, one of the stakeholders and Program Officer, Reproductive Health Family Planning, Pathfinder International, Izundu Kosi, affirmed that adolescents and youth face a wide range of barriers in accessing high-quality sexual and reproductive health  services in Nigeria including Lagos state. Kosi  stated that sexual and reproductive health  services for youth in Lagos state were facing  serious funding gaps, emphasising  that there were no budget  allocation specifically for adolescent and youth sexual and reproductive health services. She appealed to Sanwo-Olu to create a specific budget line for  adolescent and youth sexual and reproductive health  services,  review key SRH policies,  implement the laws and train healthcare providers on youth friendly health service delivery. Another stakeholder, Abiodun Ajayi, wants the governor-elect to devote more money to family planning in order to address the unmet  sexual and reproductive health needs of young persons in the state which is high. Ajayi said, “if  Sanwo-Olu heed this clarion call, it will go a long way in  reducing teenage pregnancy, out of school girls, baby dumping, unsafe  abortion, post abortion , infant mortality, among others.” 