The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Sen. Mohammed Abba-Aji, has prayed the Borno Election Petition Tribunal to cancel the return of Gov. Kashim Shettima of All Progressive Congress (APC), as winner of Borno Central senatorial seat. NAN reports that Abba-Aji had once represented the senatorial district between 2003 and 2007. In a petition marked: EPT/BO/SEN/3/2019 dated March 17, filed before the tribunal sitting in Abuja and made available to NAN, Abba-Aji argued that there was over voting in seven wards and evidence of corrupt practices and non-compliance to provision of the Electoral Act. Also joined in the suit are the APC and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Abba-Aji sought an order of the tribunal, mandating INEC to withdraw the Certificate of Return issued to Shettima because the election was marred by corrupt practices and non- compliance with electoral Act. He is also seeking for an order mandating INEC to conduct a fresh election to the seat of Borno Central Senatorial District. In other petitions, Mallam Kudla Satumari of the PDP, is challenging the declaration of Sen. Mohammed Ndume as winner of the Borno South Senatorial District conducted on Feb. 23. Joined as respondents in the petition are Ndume’s party, the APC and INEC. In the petition dated March 15 with number, EPT/BO/SEN/1/2019 made available to NAN, Satumari averred that the election was marred by corrupt practices and non- compliance with provision of the Electoral Act. He therefore sought the order of the tribunal for cancellation of the election and for INEC to conduct fresh election for the Senatorial District within 90 days. NAN also reports that Alhaji Bukar Shuwa of the PDP is challenging the declaration of Alhaji Ahmed Satomi of the APC as the representative for Jere Federal Constituency of Borno. Shuwa joined APC and INEC in the petition with number EPT/BO/HR/4/2019 dated March 17. Mr Mike David, Secretary to the tribunal, told NAN that the tribunal relocated its sitting from Maiduguri to Abuja, following an approval by the president of Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa. The relocation, he said, was based on security reasons and Justice Ishaq Bello, the FCT Chief Judge approved the use of FCT High Court Nyanya. David said the tribunal was presided by Justice Peter Kekemeke with Justice Anthonia Ubaka and Justice Yahaya Abubakar as members. He said that it has received seven petitions, but a pre-hearing date had yet to be fixed. 