…as Amosun names amphitheater as permanent abode for festival The Chairman Local Organizing Committee for the 2019 African Drums Festival in Ogun, Mrs Yetunde Onanuga has said that no fewer than 21African countries and 71 independent troupes from different states across the federation are to perform at the festival scheduled to hold between April 25 to 27. Onanuga who doubles as the deputy governor of the state, also mentioned United Kingdom, China,  Belgium, France and Germany and others were expected to grace the 4th edition of the festival. She spoke on Tuesday at the Banquet Hall, METROS Residence, Ibara, GRA,  Abeokuta, said that the venue of the event would be the amphitheater located within the Abeokuta Central Business District. Omanuga said”… 21 African countries, 71 independent troupes from across the state will perform at the festival and other countries the UK, China, Germany France, Belgium among others are still being expected in this festival.” Speaking, the State Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun said that 18 states within the country had indicated interest to perform at the festival, as he would work on featuring additional eight states at the festival. Amosun said that the amphitheater located within the Abeokuta Business District which has 10,000 capacity to accommodate people would be the permanent abode of the African Drums Festival. According to the governor part of the festival programme is the unveiling of the museum home of the late Afro beat Icon Fela Anikulapo Kuti and the honour of other musical giants who performed at the festac ’77 among others including Ebenezer Obey, Oseni Ejire, Haruna Ishola, Ayinla Omowura. He said “We will have to work to the possibility of having a permanent abode and that is the Central Business District. We are looking amphitheater  which has 10,000 seats capacity and is located at the Central Business District, and that would be the festival Village”. “We have 18 states already, I will work on either more state to perform at the African Drums Festival. We are also unveiling the museum home of Dela Anikulapo Kuti .The three days festival has also made provision for honouring 10 outstanding artists who took part in the Festac ’77.” he added. Earlier, the former Minister of Mine and Steel, Chief  Sharafa Tunji Ishola and Chairman NUJ Ogun Council, Comr.  Soji Amosu urged Amosun to use his position as the senator elect for Ogun Central to lobby at the National Assembly to that the the federal government could take a leaf from the state government in celebrating the festival nationwide 