One of the women leaders under the Sanwo-Olu campaign organisation, Alhaja Wuraola Williams, has reiterated that the women in Lagos State will vote massively for the All Progressives Congress governorship candidate, Hon. Babajide Sanwo-Olu as the next governor of 
the state. Williams who is the leader of Sawo-Olu Babes and Asiwaju for Life Strong Men and Women Organisation said this during a street campaign across four local government areas in the state namely; Lagos Island East, Lagos Island West, Obalende-Ikoyi and Eti-Osa. She assured that women across the state were already motivated with APC governance in Lagos State, and would, therefore, always call for continuity. According to her, several works have been done to ensure that those who don’t have plans for the state don’t take advantage of them. She said, “Despite that, we already know that our candidate will sail to victory easily; we are not leaving any stone unturned. Women in Lagos State are massively behind Sanwo-Olu. We understand that he has the knowledge to move the state forward better. And for this, we have been motivating women across the state to wake up and ensure victory is certain for our candidate. I have confidence that our candidate will definitely emerge the winner and he will become the next governor in this state through our indefatigable father, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who has laid a solid foundation for progressives’ growth in Lagos 
State. “I know that Lagosian will not allow a party without base like the Peoples Democratic Party to take over their affairs of 
the state.” Speaking on the opposition party, which she said was only chasing a mirage, Williams said, “PDP are good dreamers and that dreamer they shall remain forever because that dream will never come to the pass. Lagosians will not allow a party without a clue to taunt the good work that APC has been doing in Lagos over the 
years. “Lagosians know that they have nothing for them. And we women in the state will not open our eyes for the future of our children to be vested in the hands of people that are not 
trustworthy.” Speaking on the chance of President Muhammadu Buhari’s coming back, Williams also maintained that the Buhari/Osinbajo’s victory could not be negotiated as Nigerians had good testimonies of the good work, which the APC had achieved in the last four years. “Some people may say the government has not done enough, but I want to let them know that the four years of APC is far better than 16 years of PDP. 
Nigerians should wake up and take their destiny in their hands by re-electing Buhari. The future is very bright and I believe the next four years under APC will be testimonial,” Williams 
concluded. 