The Vice Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party ,  Mr. Peter Obi, has charged the Nigerian youths not to be discouraged in their desire to occupy leadership positions in the country notwithstanding the fact that some young leaders had disappointed them.Obi, a former governor of Anambra State, lambasted the governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, saying the youngest Nigerian governor is an unmitigated disaster and a disappointment to youths.The former governor bore his mind while addressing members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) under the umbrella of the National Association of Catholic Corps Members during their 26th national convention in Onitsha, Anambra State.According to Obi, Nigerian youths should be catered for in order for a better Nigeria to emerge.He said it was either the government prioritised interests of the youths or the citizens would end up losing sleep.He stated that he was not subdued by temptations of looting public treasury when he was the governor of Anambra State noting that most political leaders find it hard not to steal money while in government.He advocated the establishment of micro and medium enterprises as the way to overcome the unemployment challenge battling the country.“The government is supposed to come to you (Nigerian youths). Unless we start supporting people like you, we won’t get anywhere. We will do it differently. Those who have not been able to give us wealth are the ones managing Nigeria’s wealth. “The youth service should be one year skill acquisition service and when you are leaving, the country should be able to support you financially. The waste we have in this country is not obtainable anywhere in the world.“The youths will determine their future and the future of this country. The abuse of political offices is taking revenge on our youths. The youths should say no, we can’t continue this way. Its a pity that the youngest governor in Nigeria is an unmitigated disaster. Kogi State governor; he is a big disappointment to youths.“We celebrate criminality in Nigeria. We should call police for leaders who go to church to offer thanksgivings to God for the money they have stolen. We need capacity to lead. It is difficult to see money and not be tempted to steal it but some of us with conscience and fear of God have seen people’s money and we didn’t touch it. You (youths) have a duty to help in building a better society. We need a better Nigeria,” Obi said. 