 Former Lagos
governor and All Progressives Congress national stalwart, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu,
has asked Nigerians to select the path of progress in 2019 as opposed to going
backwards to the past that has not helped the nation. In the New
Year message he personally signed, the APC leader said Nigerians must enter
2019 and see it as a new day for the country. “The nation
is on the verge of an election to determine our collective fate,” he said,
adding, “We can either chose to continue forward or return to the old ways that
held us back for so long. Just as 2018 must turn into 2019, we must also
continue to move forward. As time cannot proceed backward. Nor should we.” Asiwaju
Tinubu was referring to the 2019 general election, which is around the corner. The New Year
message reads: “As time ushers in the New Year, we must look back on 2018 with
thanks and gratitude. We thank God for Nigeria and all that He has done for us. “We realize
that we still have much to do and far to travel to become the nation we are
destined to be. Yet, we must also acknowledge that we have come a long way. We
have made progress and it has at times been difficult, yet we stand with great
hope and belief that we shall advance and move this nation forward. “Let us
recognize that which has been done this past year. President
Buhari has built a foundation for sustainable growth and development, a path
for a better future. President Buhari has brought transparency and
accountability in the government’s businesses. “The Buhari
administration has shown the compassionate side of our traditions and our very
nature by constructing a social safety net to assure the poorest among us are
not neglected but are cared for as is the right of every human being. It has
fed children that they may go to school. “It has
trained people that they may acquire a livelihood. It has empowered those who
wish to start businesses and employ others. It has helped farmers become more
productive so that they may earn more money while better feeding the nation. “For
instance, we have recorded significant breakthrough in agriculture with
increased local rice production and the attendant reduction in rice
importation. These things have been done not to win accolades but because they
are the right things for a decent and caring government to do for a decent and
good people. “In the New
Year, let us be so committed to doing our best for Nigeria. “The nation
is on the verge of an election to determine our collective fate. We can either
choose to continue forward or return to the old ways that held us back for so
long. Just as 2018 must turn into 2019, we must also continue to move forward.
As time cannot proceed backward. Nor should we. “We must
enter the New Year and see it as a new day for Nigeria. Thus, I ask you to
perform your civic duty to vote with utmost faith, responsibility and the best
interest of the country at heart. “We have a
choice to make. The choice we make will demonstrate the type of nation we want.
I select the path of forward progress for I have never commended to myself or
to the nation the awkward practice of walking backward. We must exercise
courage and vision. We must continue forward. For the sake of this nation and
our posterity, we dare not retreat or regress. “Elections
will be free and fair. You must add your voice and vote. You must participate
in this important exercise of our democratic rights and institutions. We seek
to build a better nation. We ask you to join us. “In so
doing, we give effect to the best of our hopes and aspirations for 2019.” 