Commodore  Idongesit Nkanga (rtd) is the National Chairman of Pan- Niger – Delta Forum . In this interview,  he speaks on the issues surrounding the 2019 general elections and the interest of the Niger –  Delta people. AYO ESAN brings the excerpts. What is your advice to politicians as they begin to solicit for votes ahead of the 2019 presidential election? Every game has its rules. To this end, we  at PANDEF advise  political parties, and political leaders, including party candidates to play the game according to the rules. There should be no violation of the rules set by the Independent National Electoral Commission. Our political leaders and the candidates must know that in today’s democracy, there is no role for violence. The era of do-or-die should be seen to have been a past issue in our political history. Our politicians should learn a lesson from the recent mid-term election in the United States. Not only that, coming nearer home, there were elections recently in some African countries, including Ghana and Zimbabwe, and there were no reports of violence or the elections being put in jeopardy through violence and thuggery. Under no circumstance should politicians engage in thuggery and acts of violence. What should be of importance and paramount on the minds of candidates and their political parties is how to sell their party’s manifestoes to Nigerians. We also say no to hate speeches. Whether you belong to the ruling party or the opposition, you should not engage in hate speeches or try to whip up ethnic or religious sentiments. Issues should be the focus of campaigns by candidates and their parties. No attack on personalities. If we can do all these, there will be no  need to entertain any fear. One thing again I will strongly recommend is that this time around, the electorate should not take line, hook and sinker promises by some loquacious politicians who will promise heaven and earth. If politicians come to campaign in your area and promise to do this or that, it is not enough for you to listen to them, also ask them how are they going to execute what they promised to do. The electorate should demand explanations from candidates and their parties. Do you nurse any fear concerning general elections as a whole ? I think there should be no need for fear and anxiety if all the stakeholders involved in 2019 project play the roles expected of them perfectly. Why should we harbour any fear if politicians play the game according to the rules. Why should we harbour any fear if INEC plays the role of a genuine umpire. It is only when there is a violation that you get reaction. For instance, if the election is not free and fair, do you think everybody will keep quiet. But one thing I know is this, Nigerians are now more mature, people won’t take laws into their own hands to protest injustice if they don’t feel aggrieved, and there is no way there won’t be reactions if the election is not free and fair. In view of this, I’m appealing to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Government to ensure that INEC plays true role of an umpire expected of it. No attempt should be made to coerce or manipulate INEC to favour the ruling party. The Federal Government should leave INEC alone, and also let the will of the people prevail. It is when there is manipulation and rigging that people resort to violence. Politicians should not be desperate for political 
power. President Buhari should learn a lesson from former President Goodluck Jonathan, who said on the eve of 2015 general elections, that no life of any Nigerian is worth shedding because of political power. Why the desperation? Any politician who doesn’t have an ulterior motive but truly wants to serve the people will not take any election as a do-or-die affair. For 2019 elections to be successful, INEC must be truly independent. There must be no body language to suggest that the Federal Government wants INEC to compromise. Security agencies, including the police and operatives of the Department od State Service  and the Army must also be neutral. Those of them that will be drafted for election duties must be impartial. The whole world is watching us as 2019 is fast approaching, we can’t afford to let the world down. INEC must be very firm and also neutral. A lot depends on INEC. INEC, through its conduct, may make or mar 2019 elections. What’s PANDEF stand or position regarding political parties and their candidates? Our position in Niger-Delta is that any candidate that fails to give a promise on restructuring of Nigeria will not be voted for in the South-South. It is only candidates that back or favour restructuring that we are going to support. Without restructuring, Nigeria can’t move forward. Restructuring is the key to Nigeria’s greatness. Honestly, I don’t know why President Buhari and All Progressives Congress are not keen on restructuring Nigeria. I don’t know the kind of advice that Buhari gets on restructuring. But one thing is very clear, those people who he call his advisers are not giving him the right advise on restructuring. 