 …Buhari appeals for more time As the year 2018 is about to be rounded off in a few days,  ANGELA ONWUZOO writes on the major events that shaped the Nigerian health sector in the outgoing year. A chronicle of prominent  issues  that dominated the sector in the year showed that  aspirations of many Nigerians,   as far as affordable and quality healthcare were concerned, were not  actually met as so many challenges still confront the health sector .  It is obvious that a lot of  the challenges will continue in the new year if the government fails to addressed them urgently. Though  there were still a  few achievements that were recorded in  the health sector in 2018,  the setbacks, however, far outweigh the achievements as the major ones are enumerated in this piece even as President Muhammadu Buhari  urged Nigerians to give him more time to execute the plans he has for the country.   Brain Drain Many stakeholders in 2018  raised the alarm at the mass exit and inadequate number of medical doctors in the country, describing it as worrisome. According to findings by a local polling firm, NOIPolls, Nigeria  is sitting on a ticking health time bomb amid doctors leaving in droves, mostly to the United Kingdom and the United States . NOIPolls, in its findings, revealed that the UK was employing at least 12 new Nigerian doctors per week while 88 per cent of these professionals currently at home are planning to migrate. The polling organisation  lamented that the continuous migration had further worsened the physician-patient ratio in Nigeria from 1:4 000 to 1:5 000, contrary to the World Health Organisation’s recommended 1:600. The low doctor-to-patient ratio, experts say, is leading to unnecessary fatalities, avoidable deaths, longer wait times, more frequent medical errors and a general deterioration in the health of Nigeria’s population. Also confirming the  challenge  was a don, Prof. Christopher Obionu, who stated that  brain-drain had adversely affected the health sector as 50 per cent of Nigerian doctors were currently practicing abroad. He listed  reasons for emigration to other countries by Nigerian doctors to include; better facilities, work environment, and higher remuneration,  career progression, professional advancement and better quality of life. FG bans cough syrup with codeine The Federal Government’s ban on cough syrup with codeine took a centre stage among major activities in the health sector in 2018.   Following  an investigative documentary on drug abuse by the British Broadcasting Corporation , showing how some Nigerian youths were abusing cough syrup with codeine, the Federal Ministry of Health  on May 1, directed the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control to ban, with immediate effect, further issuance of permits for the importation of codeine as active pharmaceutical ingredient for cough preparations. According to the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, the directive became necessary due to the gross abuse Codeine usage has been subjected to in the country. In its stead, the Minister said Codeine-containing cough syrups should be replaced with dextromethorphan, which is less addictive. National Health Insurance Scheme crisis The indefinite suspension of the Executive Secretary, National Health Insurance Scheme, Prof Usman Yusuf,  by the  Governing Council of the scheme to pave way for investigation into allegations leveled against him took a dominant position in the health sector this year.  It was the second time the Executive Secretary had been suspended in two years that he had been in office. Prof. Yusuf was suspended by the Minister of Health in July, 2017 but was recalled by the Presidency in February, 2018 .  As usual, Yusuf refused to  accept his suspension  by the Governing Council, insisting that only the President, who appointed him, had the power to sack him. This, of course, generated a lot of controversy in the sector, with many analysts saying corruption had become a barrier to ability of the scheme to deliver on its mandate. According to the Governing Council, Yusuf was suspended over alleged gross misconduct. Other allegations against him include: fraud and severe infractions, public procurement infringement, among others. President Muhammadu Buhari  later  intervened in the crisis by sending the  NHIS Executive Secretary on leave. Health watchers say NHIS  has been in operation for over 10 years but  had failed in the realisation of the objectives for which it was established. Key among its failures,  they say, is the non-realisation of the objective of making health care available to Nigerians at an affordable cost. As at date, many Nigerians still pay out of their pocket for medical expenses. Health workers’ strike The Joint Health Sector Unions had on April 17, 2018, commenced  an indefinite strike, demanding, among others, adjustment of the Consolidated Health Salary Structure,  implementation of court judgments and upward review of retirement age from 60 to 65 years, arrears of skipping of CONHESS 10. The strike, as usual, resulted in  many avoidable deaths. Illicit drug abuse The menace of illicit drug abuse was also among event that shaped the health sector in 2018.  Alarms were raised on every side on how illicit drug was consuming  a lot of Nigerian  youths. Many Nigerians  expressed concern over the rising menace of drug abuse among youths, which they say was  fuelling the future threat to families and society at large. Outbreak of Yellow Fever in Edo State Still on a negative note, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, last month, announced the outbreak of yellow fever in Edo State.. The renewed outbreak, stakeholders say, is a wake-up call for the government to be more proactive. Away from setbacks,  the health sector in 2018 also  recorded some progress. Buhari signs Bill establishing Nigeria Centre for Disease Control President Muhammadu Buhari,  in November, signed into law the Bill establishing the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. The agency, which has been in charge of disease surveillance, preparedness and control in Nigeria, was established in 2011 and has been in existence without any legislative backing.The status quo, however, changed when the president appended his signature to the Bill and empowered the agency to carry out its mandate in disease control. Nigeria gets $660m grant to tackle HIV, TB, Malaria The Global Fund,  in October , gave Nigeria an additional $660 million grant to fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. This was in addition to over $2 billion that had been invested in Nigeria by the Fund for the same purpose.  The new investment, which has three years circle, was designed to provide more opportunities for patients diagnosed of the epidemics to get prompt and quality medical attention. FG  inaugurates Committee for Basic Healthcare Provision Fund As part of efforts to achieve universal health coverage, the Federal Government  inaugurated a National Steering Committee on Basic Health Care Provision Fund.  The committee is expected to advocate for more resources and to ensure smooth operation of the Basic Health Healthcare Provision Fund. As Nigerians still yearn  for quality and affordable healthcare in 2019, stakeholders are calling on the government to invest in  infrastructure and training, by making quality healthcare delivery a priority. 