 Commuters along the Ketu-Ikorodu Expressway in Lagos State have decried the high crime rates and robbery attacks in the area, urging security operatives to be alive to their responsibilties by guaranteeing securiťy of lives and property of citizens.   In recent time, Ketu, Owode to Ikorodu road, have become notorious for nefarious activities by criminals.   Findings by our correspondent showed that there were persistent robbery attacks on the axis.     A motorist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said crime became a common phenomenon in the area shortly before last Christmas.   It was gathered that many people had been harmed by hoodlums.   The men of the underworld were reported to have said that they were not robbing but collecting their shares from their victims.   One of the motorists, who was attacked in his Lexus 330 Sport Utility Vehicle, Emeka Ogadinma, lamented that the robbers humiliated him and his family members.   Ogadinma said, "We were returning from our village in Orlu, Imo State. My car developed a fault at Ore area (Ondo State) and we took time to repair the vehicle. We left Ore around 7pm. When we got to Ikorodu, it was around 10.30pm. There was traffic gridlock; I ddin't even know the cause. Suddenly, we saw some hoodlums who brandished cutlasses, daggers, iron rods, smashing windscreens and robbing. They injured many people. I was helpless. If I had been alone, I would have escaped from the vehicle but there was nothing I could do as my wife and children were in the vehicle.   "I brought out the money left on me and my handset and told my wife and kids to surrender theirs too. I called the robbers and handed over the four handsets to them with N50, 000 so they spared us. Throughout the period, police did not show up. People have bitter experience on the road nowadays."   A commercial mini-bus, Volkswagen LT driver, Timileyin Adewole, described his first experience with armed robbers as horrible. Since over 20 years of his experience in driving, he said he never had a bad day as he did recently.   According to him, the hoodlums smashed the windscreen of his vehicle and attacked his conductor with cutlass for arguing with them over money.   "They ordered me to surrender the money on me to them. I told my conductor to give it to them but he was arguing with them. They hit him with matchets, collected the money and took to their heels. My bus was damaged and my conductor is still in the hospital. He has a deep cut on his head. It is sad that, everyday, armed robbers operate on Ikorodu Road and rob people but you will not see the police," he lamented.   Another motorist, Emmanuel Akpan, said he and his family escaped death by the whiskers in the area recently.   He said, "As I was returning to Lagos from Akwa Ibom State, the robbers attacked us close to Mile 12 bridge. My wife and my two children were in the vehicle and there was traffic gridlock. Suddenly, we saw hoodlums with different weapons attacking vehicles.  I surrendered my phone. My wife did also and I gave them the money that we had on us; about N17, 000.   "One of them told me that they were not robbers but that they had no money. They said what they were getting was family support. There was no police anywhere, so we were robbed."   A passenger, Jimoh Aliu, while relaying his ordeal, said, "I regretted that journey of December 31, 2018. We were in the traffic gridlock caused by these hoodlums. They came from different directions. There was nowhere to run to. It was around Weighbridge, along Ikorodu road. A soldier in uniform was matcheted.   "I quickly surrendered the money on me. Everywhere was dark. It was a terrible experience. People urinated on their bodies as a result of fright. There was nowhere to run to. I was in Ghana until my family told me to come back to Nigeria. Such a thing never happened to me in Ghana."   A police sergeant attached to Ketu Police Station, who did not want his name in print, said, "The police is not to blame. When we shoot at criminals, journalists would report that police killed innocent persons. Now you can see where that is leading us."  