 Timothy
Agbor, Osogbo Osun State
Police Command has paraded three suspects including Dauda Amusat (a.k.a Adasi),
Alade Afeez (a.k.a Esubiyi) and Adesoji Seyi (aka Osa) for allegedly killing
some persons in the state. The
Commissioner of Police, Mr. Fimihan Adeoye, said police investigation revealed
that the trio has killed many people at one community or the other in the
state. According to
the CP, Amusat was arrested on December 28, 2018 at about 4pm at Ifon-Osun in
Orolu Local Government Area of the state. He said the
36 year-old Amusat was arrested for conspiracy and murder of a 42 year- old
Sanusi Isiaka, who was killed on May 14, 2017 around 9pm at a point near Slava
Construction Company along Iwo-road, Osogbo. The CP
explained that the head of the deceased was immediately cut off by the suspect
and later used for ritual by the suspects. He said,
“the deceased was deceitfully lured from Saki in Oyo state to Osogbo few
days before his death by one of the principal suspects named Yekini Ayinde (aka
Abija), now at large. The CP said
that the deceased was asked to deliver 500 bags of rice and was later lodged in
a hotel with expectation of getting money for the sale of rice through Ayinde. “The
deceased was taken out to the scene where he was assassinated and the money was
stolen and shared by the suspects. He disclosed
that the suspect has confessed through his statement volunteered to the police
that seven of them perpetrated the killing while four of them used the
dismembered head for ritual. “Three suspects
have been charged to court sometimes last year while this suspect will also
appear in court as soon as investigation is completed,” Adeoye assured. The suspect,
Amusat, who also spoke with newsmen, confessed that he put rope on the neck of
the deceased while his colleagues slayed him with knife. He said,
“I am selling beer in Ifon-Osun where I know Abija. He promised to give us
N200,000 if we can help him kill the man. He sent his people to bring the man
to us at Okefia, Osogbo. When we finished the job, he gave Oyama N65,000, he
gave me N70,000 so that I can use N5,000 to buy beer for people the following
day. I took the head of the deceased as opportunity to use it for money ritual. Also, two
suspected cultists, Seyi (26 years) and Afeez (26 years) were paraded for
involvement in secret cult and killing of many people in Osun State
Polytechnic, Iree. Afeez, who
spoke with newsmen, confessed that he shot one Bode and killed him, adding that
“I also shot another person but he did not die. Those people I shot are
members of Aye. He later died when we (Eye and Aye fraternity) were fighting. “I
sustained gun shot in my body. They have tried to kill me before I joined the
group. But God saved me. I made a mistake because I supposed to forgive but I
did not forgive. He confessed
that he joined the group (Eye) in 2009 at Osun State Polytechnic, Iree, where
he studied Ordinary National Diploma in Accountancy. 