Lagos Deep Offshore Logistic Base, LADOL, has been selected by the London Stock Exchange as one of the companies to Inspire Africa 2019.  This is according to a report by the LSE that was launched last Wednesday at the opening of the market in London. “This is the second edition of this prestigious report, which identifies Africa’s most inspirational and dynamic private, high-growth companies. The report aims to give these companies global recognition and attract foreign investment into the continent,” 
it said. Reacting to the listing, Managing Director of LADOL, Dr. Amy Jadesimi, said, “LADOL is honoured to be included in London Stock Exchange’s (LSE) list of Companies to Inspire Africa. We thank the entire LSE team for all their hard work in compiling the report and today’s launch, at which I was proud to be invited to speak,” she was quoted to have said. “LSE’s high-profile focus on real indigenous private sector companies across the African continent is an important step in highlighting the fact that Africa is already home to a thriving and growing number of leading companies. The broad range of companies represented show how shallow investment understanding of our current markets is and how many opportunities there are for investment today. We look forward to working with the LSE and cooperating with the other indigenous companies highlighted,” Jadesimi 
added. She further explained that investment in Africa was about the market case, noting that instead of eking out low returns from investments in developed markets, international investors should focus on the many hugely lucrative market opportunities across 
Africa. She said, “Investing in Africa requires a seismic change in investment strategy – international investors that want to remain relevant and viable need to immediately invest in new diverse teams and new financial instruments that will enable them to invest in Africa. Teams that use outdated and inappropriate bankability definitions will continue to struggle to tap into this highly lucrative market. “Operating out of LADOL saves IOCs 50 per cent on their costs in deep offshore logistics, saving billions of USD each year. This compelling value proposition was well known for over a decade and a half, yet today LADOL is the only deep offshore support base in Lagos. A clear example of how international investors are missing out on billon dollar investment opportunities by not investing in market case-based business models 
in Africa.” Commenting on the 2019 report, LSE CEO, David Schwimmer, said,  “London Stock Exchange Group’s ‘Companies to Inspire Africa’ report showcases inspirational and entrepreneurial businesses from across the African continent, representing a wide variety of industries and countries. It is particularly encouraging to see the increasing influence of women in leadership roles in these fast-growing companies, playing a pivotal role in shaping the future of African business. “These high growth companies have the potential to transform the African economy and become tomorrow’s job creators. At LSEG, we are committed to helping companies realise that potential and we are pleased to highlight and celebrate the company’s success stories behind one of the world’s fastest growing markets.” 