The Peoples Democratic Party Presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, on Tuesday accused the All Progressives Congress controlled federal government of promoting poverty and misery in land. Atiku, who made the allegation at a one day PDP South East campaign rally in Owerri where he formally presented the party’s flags to its governorship candidates in the zone, noted that the nation globally acknowledged as the giant of Africa and most populous black nation on earth had of recent joined the inglorious league of nations as the headquarters of poverty, destitution and hunger due to the improvised leadership style of the APC government. “Today, there is too much hunger, starvation, unemployment, agony and insecurity in the land and our nation had become part of the headquarters of world poverty because the APC federal government has no plan. He explained that the rally was held in Owerri because of the desire of the PDP to regain the state and to remedy the ills perpetrated by the APC in the state. “I urge you all to come out on the 16th of next month and vote for me and to protect your votes. You should also vote for all PDP candidates in the forthcoming elections and we will make sure that the APC which is notorious for rigging does not have its way this time,” he said. While assuring all unemployed Nigerians of gainful employment and maximum security, the PDP Presidential flag bearer also accused the APC of destroying the nation’s economy through ineffectual economic policies. National chairman of the party, Uche Secondus said that the PDP had uncovered a plot by the APC to rig the election but vowed that the PDP would do everything humanly possible to resist this. He advised the electorate to reject the APC and all that it stands for at the polls and to vote massively for the PDP. In this vein, the Party’s vice Presidential candidate Peter Obi, the Senate President, and Director General of the Atiku Abubakar President campaign organization – Dr. Bukola Saraki, the Deputy Senate President – Ike Ekweremadu and other party chieftaincy who attended the rally all dismissed the APC as a party with empty promises for the masses and called for total rejection of the party at the polls. 