Some concerned indigenes of Kwara State have called on the Independent National Electoral Commission to uphold its pledge to conduct free and fair elections this year and resist the temptation of selling unclaimed Permanent Voter Cards to desperate politicians. The indigenes, who spoke in separate interviews with our correspondent, said although there would be card readers, politicians might have perfected their rigging plans, which could be helped by illegal acquisition of unclaimed PVCs. A lawyer, Mr. Adamu Junaid, claimed that there were plans by members of the two leading political parties in the state, the Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressives Congress, to outsmart each other in getting to INEC first to strike a deal on unclaimed PVCs. “This is what we are hearing. INEC has told us how many PVCs have not been claimed. They should come out again to tell us if they have been claimed or not, and how many are remaining. We want to know how many people will vote in Kwara State. It should be clear,” he said. Another indigene, Alhaji Abolade Abdul-Mojeed, said desperate politicians were everywhere, but that the case of Kwara was peculiar, especially in the forthcoming elections. “We know what they can do. INEC must resist every temptation to sell the future of Kwarans. We want to know the position of things, as at today, on PVCs in Kwara State,” he insisted. INEC had indicated, recently, that no fewer than 300,000 registered voters might be disenfranchised in the general election in Kwara State as a result of non-collection of their PVCs. This disclosure was made by the state Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr. Garba Madami, at a one-day stakeholders’ forum in Ilorin. The REC, while appealing to all eligible voters in the state to show up for the collection of their PVC, said, “With collection of PVCs closing on February 8, we have more than 300,000 left in our office.” Meanwhile, INEC also said no one would be allowed to bring food, phones or vehicles to polling centres during elections in order to curb electoral fraud and other illegalities. The REC said the INEC would collaborate with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission to check vote buying and selling. “You can’t bring in your phone to polling booth to snap pictures of your ballot paper to show who you have voted for,” Madami said. Noting that, in the past, politicians brought money in vehicles to polling centres to buy votes, he said, “Now, anti-graft agencies, like the EFCC and the ICPC, are monitoring vote buyers and sellers because of our collaboration with them. That is why money is not circulating in this campaign unlike before. “Our card readers are working well now. That is why politicians are desperate to go for vote buying. If we succeed in this, we would have a credible election.” Madami also said pregnant women; old people and physically challenged persons would be given preference to vote without queuing. 