Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams, has reiterated the need for restructuring if we must progress as a nation. He made this known on Wednesday at the launching of two books in honour of the 15th Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land at Sheraton Hotel, Lagos. According to him, this restructuring is about reorganization of the country to ensure development from the ward level to local government councils, to states and then the federal level and not the other way round. “The earlier we restructure the better for us as a nation.” The Aare Ona Kakanfo also advised sons and daughters of Yoruba land to always appreciate and promote their culture because this is very crucial to their overall development. Also speaking at the occasion, the chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, Lagos State Council, Dr Qasim Akinreti said that Yorubas need to appreciate the institution of Aare Ona Kakanfo because of the unique nature of Yoruba culture and values such as respect for elders, very rich proverbs among others. “And we must consciously encourage the upliftment of these values.” The representative of Alafin of Oyo, Mogaji GboyegaAdejumo said that the Yoruba race has been able to evolve in the modern age through the unique role of the Aare Ona Kakanfo. He urged people to study history even if they don’t teach them in schools; they need to dig deep for knowledge. He called on all Yoruba Obas to give their support to the new young and courageous Aare Ona Kakanfo because his emergence is for a purpose to unite the Yoruba race as he is second to none in terms of dedication to the Yoruba course. While reviewing the book; Iba Gani Adams: Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land, Prof. Siyanbola Oyeweso emphasized the need for people to know their history through reading and research very well because if they do not know their history, some other people will write their history for them and distort such history. The two books were launched in honour of Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, the 15th Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land. The event is part of activities lined up to mark the first anniversary of the installation of Gani Adams as Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land. The second book titled: Voice of The Media, Voice of The People was reviewed by Dr Tunde Akanni of Lagos State University. The second publication focuses on media collection on activities of Gani Adams over the years while the first one has to do with the principle, struggles and the institution of Aare Ona Kakanfos. The two books are must-read for all those who appreciates culture and good values. According to Dr Akinreti, the union decided to write the books on Gani Adams in recognition of his contributions to the progress of the nation particularly his extra ordinarily interest in promotion of Yoruba culture. “The Lagos NUJ considers it worthy to honour Iba Gani Adams with the two books because of his outstanding contributions to national development. Giving his antecedents and struggles over the years as an activist, the history of democracy in Nigeria will be incomplete without special reference to Gani Adams whether as Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) leader or as a social crusader. “At a tender age, he committed himself to the liberation of humanity by championing a good course. He is among notable Nigerians that really sacrificed personal comforts to make the nation thick in several aspects. At different times, despite his unjust detention, he was never deterred to stay focus and remains the people’s vanguard. “His love and commitment towards the promotion of Yoruba tradition is already a global testimony. We are proud of him and we see him as a rare breed and a role model. For us, he was the most suitable for the position of Aare Ona Kakanfo as appointed by Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi” the NUJ chairman said. The grand finale of the occasion will be at 10 Degree Event Center, Oregun, Lagos where Aare Gani will confer chieftaincy titles on 17 distinguished personalities across the South West as members of Kakanfo cabinet. 