The University of Lagos said it hopes to recruit international students with its new campus television station. The Vice Chancellor, Prof. Toyin Ogundipe,  said this while unveiling the school’s new and first campus television station in Nigeria. He also said that the station would help the institution maintain international value and relate with other communities. “It is of invaluable advantage for an institution seeking to be a world class university to use this medium in recruiting international students. It is also a major medium for university to reach out to and interact with its immediate communities,” he said. Ogundipe explained that the television station would see to the education, information and entertainment of students and the people of Lagos State. According to him, the station would have an hour belt for distance learning students and promote the culture of the institution’s immediate environment. He said, “We are pleased to blaze the trail by establishing the first campus TV in Nigeria and West Africa. UNILAG TV will fly on the platform of Star Times Digital Broadcasting Channel 184. “It will serve as a reference point in sports, documentaries, quality entertainment and an instrument of educational advancement. There will be a time belt for distance learning students. Before the end of the year, we want to merge the activities of students in the arts, social sciences and science to generate quality content. “Of utmost importance is that the UNILAG TV Channel 184 will have a time belt for our Distance Learning teaching packages. It will serve as an instrument for our Distance Learning students.” The Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, University of Lagos, Dr. Wale Babalakin, also urged the university to be the source of exceptional intellectual discourse, accurate news and solutions to societal problems. He said, “I hope this station will be the centre of very interesting discussions. I am hoping that it will be a centre of correct and accurate news and will begin the end of fake news in Nigeria. “We are hoping that it will bring back the vibrancy of intellectual discourse and become a great centre. I really look forward to you providing what is missing today. “A lot of TV stations have done very well, but I believe there is room for a TV station that will acquire the reputation of being a source of the most outstanding intellectual discourse. I want UNILAG TV to always bring together the leaders of opinion, the most resourceful people and the most intellectual people in every area to discuss issues.” 