The management of the University of Lagos, Akoka, has said that the allegations against the institution’s Pro-Chancellor, Dr. Wale Babalakin, by the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Lagos zone, were unfounded. The university cleared the air on the allegations in a statement signed by the Registrar and Secretary to the Council of the institution, Oladejo Azeez, saying Babalakin’s meeting with the members of Senate was not in any way unprecedented. “A former Pro-Chancellor and Chairman, Governing Council of the university, Aare Afe Babalola, SAN, held a meeting of such nature with members of the Senate when he was appointed Pro-Chancellor of the institution,”Azeez said. The registrar said Babalakin, therefore, acted within the law, stressing that the pro-chancellor had done nothing wrong or out of the ordinary by holding a meeting with members of the Senate of the University of Lagos on Wednesday, September 26, 2018. “It is worthy of note also, that the Pro-Chancellor has held meetings with all members of staff of the University of Lagos upon his assumption of office. These meetings were held with other council members in attendance so as to have a better understanding of the university environment from members of staff directly involved with the operations of the university. “Therefore, we want to place it on record that the Governing Council of the University of Lagos, led by Dr. Olawale Bolanle Babalakin, SAN, has consistently upheld laws and traditions of the university. It is also on record that the Pro-Chancellor has carried out his duties diligently without drawing any allowance or financial benefit from the university. He is actually on record as supporting the university with his personal resources,” the statement explained. On the reinstatement of the Director of Sports, Azeez said it was true that a member of staff of the institution forwarded a petition to the university’s Governing 
Council. “This petition, like others of its kind, was reviewed and debated upon by members of the council. It was discovered, after careful deliberations, that the university Senate had cleared the Director of Sports, Dr. Cecilia Arinze, of nine out of 11 allegations leveled against her,” the statement said. It added that the Council also discovered that the 10th allegation against Arinze was frivolous and that the only remaining allegation was insufficient to dismiss a staff of the university who had put in 30 years of 
service. 