The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State, Tonye Cole has urged Rivers people to remain steadfast in their support for the party and its Presidential candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari. Cole also noted that what the courts have done to him was to place his aspiration and that of other APC candidates in Rivers State on hold. The business mogul said this in a statement signed by his Media Aide, Chief Ogbonna Nwuke, adding that the APC remains the best alternative as Nigerians prepare for the forthcoming elections. He said that the APC in Rivers State has not been outlawed by the courts from campaigning for President Muhammadu Buhari who has done well for the Nigerian people. “What the courts have done is to place the aspirations of APC candidates in Rivers State on hold and we respect that. “As loyal party members who are waiting for the decision of the courts, we shall campaign for President Buhari and the APC at this time. When we do, we shall not be campaigning for Rivers candidates.” “Our candidates know their day will come. We shall await judicial pronouncements on the matters before them. By the grace of God, justice will prevail.” Cole urged Rivers people not to be dismayed by the current developments in the State, saying an APC administration would consolidate on the achievements so far recorded in the diversification of the economy and the frugal management of scare resources. The statement also disclosed that the wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari is expected to arrive the State for a women and youths rally. It urged Rivers people and teeming members of the APC to turn out en masse to receive the wife of the President, wife of the Minister of Transportation, Dame Judith Amaechi and members of their entourage. The statement says, “Going by current political trends in the country, it is obvious that Nigerians from the north and the South west are rooting for the President and the APC. The statement noted that it would amount to a gross mistake if Rivers people are lured to remain in opposition when the rest of the country is moving forward. It said claims being peddled by the opposition that the APC has no candidates in Rivers State were misleading. Subsisting judgments, the statement explained, have ordered the APC to vacate the decision of the Rivers State High Court. “The APC is already in court to vacate the ruling of the Rivers State High Court in compliance with the order of their Lordships”, Cole’s Spokesman added. 