..Buhari practising lessons he learnt from his late hero Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has said that President Muhammadu Buhari is currently practising lessons he learnt from late Nigerian Head of State, General Sanni Abacha, urging Nigerian to rise up and pray hard like they did in the Abacha days. He said the President had intimidated and harassed the private sector, attacked the National Assembly and now unconstitutionally and recklessly attacked and intimidated the Judiciary to cow them to submission. The former president, who made this known, while addressing journalists at his Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta, Ogun State, said that the nation currently “ needs a man with better physical and mental soundness with an active mind and intellect” to pilot its affairs. In his speech, titled, “Points for Concern and Action”, the elder statesman said, “His scheme bears eloquent testimony to this road similar to Abacha whom he has praised to high heavens and as an arch-supporter and beneficiary from Abacha, he has seen nothing wrong done by him.  It is clear from all indications that Buhari is putting into practice the lessons he learned from Abacha. Buhari has intimidated and harassed the private sector, attacked the National Assembly and now unconstitutionally and recklessly attacked and intimidated the Judiciary to cow them to submission.
“I was a victim of Abacha’s atrocities against Nigeria and Nigerians – high and low.  At the height of Abacha’s desperation for perpetual power, he did not brook any criticism because Nigeria was seen as his personal property.  You must go along with him or be destroyed.  All institutions for ensuring security, welfare and well-being of Nigeria and Nigerians, particularly the Police, the Military and the Department of State Services (DSS) were abused and misused to deal with critics of Abacha and non-conformists with Abacha.”
OBJ, as he is fondly called, added, “Today, another Abacha era is here.  The security institutions are being misused to fight all critics and opponents of Buhari and to derail our fledgling democracy.  EFCC, Police and Code of Conduct Tribunal are also being equally misused to deal with those Buhari sees as enemies for criticising him or as those who may not do his bidding in manipulating election results.  Criticism, choice and being different are inherent trademark of democracy.  If democracy is derailed or aborted, anarchy and authoritarianism will automatically follow.
“Today, as in the day of Abacha, Nigerians must rise up and do what they did in the time of Abacha. Churches and Mosques prayed.  International community stood by us Nigerians. I was a beneficiary and my life was saved. Well-meaning Nigerians took appropriate actions and made sacrifices, some supreme, some less than supreme but God had the final say and He took the ultimate action.”
The former president observed that he had also been threatened with arrest and even extermination but insisted he would not succumb to intimidation.
“God of Nigeria is a living God and a prayer-answering God.  Nigerians must cry out to God to deliver Nigeria. Here again, I have been threatened with arrest and extermination but I will not succumb to intimidation or threats.  Maybe I should remind those who are using probe as a threat that I have been probed four times by EFCC, ICPC, House of Representatives and the Senate and Buhari has access to reports of these probes.  But I have also challenged Buhari and the criminals around him to set up a probe on the same allegations and I will face such probe in public,” he declared.
He expressed “serious doubt about the present INEC’s integrity, impartiality and competence to conduct a fair, free and credible election.” 
“And if the INEC is willing, will the ruling party and government allow it?  From what we saw and knew about Osun State gubernatorial election, what was conclusive was declared inconclusive despite all advice to the contrary,” he said.
Stressing the fact that the President was unfit for the highest political office in Nigeria, Obasanjo said, “Even when figures, facts and statistics are made clear to Buhari, he keeps repeating what is untrue, either because he cannot understand or for mischief purposes and that places him on the level of a pathological liar.” 