The Peoples Democratic Party, on Sunday, said the concerns raised by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, detailing President Muhammadu Buhari’s scheme to use apparatus of state power to subjugate Nigerians, “undermine our democratic system, subvert the electoral process and perpetuate himself in office,” had further vindicated its stand that the President was out for a self-succession plot”. The PDP, in a statement, signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, said,  “Obasanjo’s submission has also reinforced our position that President Buhari, and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), having realised that there is no way he can win in a free and fair election, is now besieging all democratic institutions, including the Judiciary, the Legislature, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), while engaging in acts that threaten the unity, peace and corporate existence of our dear nation. “The whole world can see how President Buhari and APC’s desperation for power is putting the lives of over 200 million Nigerian citizens at great risk as their actions stoke violence and push our dear nation to the precipice. We are, however, not surprised that the APC, a party that has shown that it is completely anti-people, quickly rose in defence of the Buhari Presidency’s assault on our democratic order. The APC has always been a deceptive soulless mob that would rather have our nation burn than to be out of power.” The party said former President Obasanjo’s concern was, therefore, a clarion call to all compatriots, irrespective of ethnic, religious and political affiliations to rise in defence of Nigeria’s democracy. “He has reinforced the fact that this nation belongs to all of us; that our pride as a people lies in our resilience and globally acclaimed ability to rise above and defeat every situation that challenges our nationhood,” the PDP said. The party has, therefore, called on all Nigerians to be at alert at this critical time to stop President Buhari and the APC on their anti-democratic trails with their votes. “We should never allow anybody to set our nation on fire just to achieve selfish ambitions. We must eschew all our differences and unite in using our votes to take back our country from this dwindling, incompetent, ineffectual, corrupt and anti-people administration. If we don’t take action with our votes, we would be giving up our nation to totalitarian forces at our own peril and those of generations yet unborn,” the main opposition party declared. 