A As the year 2018 comes to an end, OLUWATOSIN OBAJEMU reviews the major events and developments that shaped the education sector in the year Really, there is still a long way to go for the education sector in Nigeria as students cannot still study under a stable setting. Obviously, the major events that dominated the sector were mainly controversial issues that raised concerns among stakeholders. With the students always on compulsory breaks , through strike actions of their lecturers and that of the non-academic staff of the various institutions,  the stability of the education sector in the country couldn’t have been said to be feasible. However, the country recorded several achievements in the sector,  but the instability in the academic calendar of most tertiary institutions, stakeholders say, has taken the shine off the achievements.  Budgetary allocation still low Stakeholders had raised some concerns before 2018 about the low allocation to the education sector. Controversies arose when the 2018 budget was released and less than 26 per cent  was allocated to the sector.  Stakeholders therefore raised the alarm of the low allocation which was below the recommendation of the United Nations Education and Scientific Organisation , linking it to the cause of the sector’s underdevelopment. Confirming the underdevelopment this year, a global study on countries’ investments in healthcare and education undertaken by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington, United States, ranked Nigeria 171 out of 195 countries sampled. The result of the study, which was published this year, studied the countries from 1990 to 2016. The study revealed that Nigeria was driving towards a wrong end by investing poorly in the education sector. Stakeholders lamented  this report which had placed the country as one of the poorest for investing poorly in this sector. FG, ASUU struggle The consistent struggle between the Federal Government and the teaching manpower was also one of the major developments in the sector for the year under review. The teaching manpower in the country’s education sector  consists of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics, National Union of Teachers and Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria. The unions demanded  a better working environment throughout the year just as the Federal Government struggled to do its best to assuage the situation. In the 19 years since Nigeria returned to civil rule under the Fourth Republic, university teachers in the country have embarked on strike 14 times that saw them staying  away from work for about 40 months. The latest strike by the teachers under the auspices of ASUU began on November 5, 2018 and there is yet no end in sight, in spite of several rounds of meetings between the leaders of the union and the Federal Government. Another strike by polytechnic teachers,  under the auspices of ASUP, began in December 2018, although negotiations are still going on but no agreement had been reached yet. Stakeholders have continued to lament the poor treatment of teachers in the country and have been calling on the government to revamp the sector. The NUT was so particular about the issue of unqualified teachers and the poor welfare of teachers, with the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria also stating that, currently, Nigeria has two million qualified and registered teachers across the country. TRCN Registrar, Prof. Olusegun Ajiboye, said the country still needs 250,000 teachers annually to cater to the growing population of pupils in spite the current number of registered teachers in the country. He noted that as a country with the largest number of out-of-school-children, there was need for adequate teachers to meet the learning and teaching needs of children. At the recent World Teacher’s Day  celebrated all over the world on October 5 , the National President, Comrade Michael Olukoya,  told our correspondent that the Nigerian teachers did not celebrate themselves as they have not been treated well professionally. Out-of-School Children The country was again in October greeted with the announcement on the issue of the growing number of out-of-school children in the country by the United Nation Children Fund and the Universal Basic Education Commission, which stakeholders described as worrisome. UBEC disclosed that the population of out-of-school children in Nigeria had increased from 10.5 million to 13.2 million as the country was ranked as having the highest number of out-of-school children in the world . The Executive Secretary of UBEC, Hamid Bobboyi, also said that in Nigeria, the girl-child constituted over 60 per cent of children out of school. Insecurity still threatens education Insecurity still remains a major threat to the education system, especially in Northern Nigeria, as our correspondent reported several cases in Kaduna, Jos and Kano in August. Young Hummat, who spoke with our correspondent had happily taken a Joint Admissions and  Matriculation Board Direct Entry form to study Marketing at the University of Jos, but now her fate is hanging concerning her academic career. Almost all members of her entire family have been sent to their untimely graves due to the worsening security situation in the Northern part of the country. Students of the University of Jos were also victims as a student died in the crisis, one went missing and two others were injured. Splendor Salama, a student of the School of Nursing, Kaduna, also said, “There was a period that we had to close the school for about six months because of a particular crisis in Kaduna; we could not go out. This was a delay for me, especially, and I had to remain at home. Some of my cousins and other relatives have been barred from academics by their parents because of fear.” A lecturer in the Department of Education, University of Jos, Dr. Michael Ogundele, told The Point  that insecurity in the North had resulted in the massive withdrawal of students from the school. “The effect of insecurity is that it has really retarded the quality of education, especially lower education programme. When there is insecurity, every parent will not allow their parents to go to school. “Parents will be scared; that’s why we have few students in school. This is very common among societies. When there is a problem, you must stay at home. Insecurity has really affected education and caused the level of out-of-school students to rise,” Ogundele told our correspondent. Controversial issues Several other controversial issues also featured prominently during the year like the sex for marks scandal, Hijab controversy, Insurance Scheme for the Unity Schools as well as the usual challenges faced by students in securing admission through JAMB. Two of the nation’s top universities, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife and University of Lagos, Akoka were rocked by allegations of sex-for-marks this year. A female postgraduate student of OAU, Miss Monica Osetobe Osagie, leaked an audio recording of her conversation with Prof. Richard Akindele in the Department of Management and Accounting, demanding for five rounds of sex in exchange for marks. After his prosecution, the Federal High Court sitting in Osogbo, sentenced the  lecturer, who had already been sacked from the school,   to six years imprisonment. The University of Ibadan International School was also shut down indefinitely following the crisis rocking the school over the use of hijab by female Muslim students in the school. The new Insurance scheme for Unity schools in which each student is expected to pay N5, 000 for insurance cover also made the headlines and generated some controversies.. Students also lamented the hurdles of being exploited in their bid to secure admission through JAMB. The Federal Government however made moves to declare a state of emergency in the education sector for its improvement but this had not been implemented yet. Landmarks by FG on the sector After several complaints from stakeholders, the Federal Government slashed the fee for acquiring the JAMB  and National Examination Council forms for the first time. The cost of application form for JAMB was reduced from N5, 000 to N3, 500. A similar slash was announced for the Senior Secondary Certificate Examination from N11, 350 to N9, 850 The education sector was given seven percent in the budget allocation this year. It was also noted that the home grown feeding programme is now feeding over 9,300,892 children in 49,837 government schools in 26 States. As the year comes to a close, the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, also disclosed that President Muhammadu Buhari had approved the increase in the retirement age for teachers from 60 to 65 years. Adamu informed the committee that the NUT  had submitted the new retirement age proposal to the ministry and the National Assembly for approval. He said that the drive was based on the need for a better performance by teachers and the desire to have quality teachers in Nigeria’s primary and secondary schools. Stakeholders call for a better 2019 Stakeholders have therefore appealed to the Federal Government to consider the Education sector in 2019 to save it from falling entirely. A former Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Obe Ibidapo, said the Government did their best but the setback in the sector had outweighed the efforts of the Government. He therefore pleaded with the government to review the 2019 budget and give the sector not less than 20 per cent. Others also said the year was fruitful but not as fruitful as it should 
be. 