 The recent killing of a former Chief of Defense Staff, Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh (rtd), who was also a Chief of Air Staff, by yet-to-be identified bandits, is a pointer to the general state of insecurity in the country, coupled with continued fatalities from terrorism as the year 2018 rounds off. MATTHEW DIKE reports   Reports of killings in the country have been on the ascendancy throughout the year under review. With generalinsecurity on the rise across the nooks and corners of the country, terrorism has continued to be a major issue the government has been unable to resolve. While some of the terrorists came out boldly as terrorists, some allegedly disguised as herdsmen to perpetrate their heinous crime with the Middle Belt and the Northeast badly hit by their onslaught. Robberies, kidnapping, abductions and other criminal acts have also been on the increase across the country as people now live in fear almost everywhere. The situation in the country is such that nobody can confidently claim to be safe as military generals are also being killed just like “bloody” civilians.   Terrorists still on rampage   On January 11, 2018, some  Fulani herdsmen razed about 25 villages,  killing 73 people at Guma and Logo Local Government of Benue State. On February 2, 2018, the Fulani herdsmen also killed four persons, including a couple at Nguutwsem village in Gascol Local Government Area of Taraba State.   On March 6, 2018, Fulani herdsmen attacked  Omusu village, at Ojigo ward, Edumoga, Okpokwu local government, of Benue State, killing 26 people.   In April 1, 2018, Boko Haram killed 20 people , wounded 85 people while  on April 13, 2018, the   death toll of people killed by Fulani herdsmen hit about 35. The herdsmen were said to have killed the people at Jandeikyula village in Wukari local Government Area of Taraba State. On July 12, 2018,  the insurgents attack in Borno State was repelled by  Nigerian soldiers, leading to the death of 25 people, including two soldiers.   On May 9, 2018, the herdsmen also attacked Tutuwa village , Ussa Local Government in Taraba State, killing scores of people.   Between July 7 and 11, 2018, the herdsmen killed no fewer than 42 people , sacking about 12 villages in Taraba State. The villages affected are  Kwajafa, , Sabon Gida, Yilti, Budon, Bujum, Damga Dutse, Bawa Garki, Mayo Lope, Kpanti Ladi and Bunzung.   On July 26, 2018, dozens of troops were said to have been killed by the Islamist group in Garunda village, in Borno State.   Within the same July, 2018, hundreds of Nigerian soldiers were said to have been missing after the Boko Haram sect led by Abu Musab al- Barnawi overran the Nigerian soldiers base in the north eastern part of the country. Less than 100 soldiers were said to have returned after the attack.   On October 16, 2018, the killing of an aid worker with the International Committee of the Red Cross , Hauwa Liman, led to public outcry even as the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu,  raised his voice over the bloodletting in the country..   Meanwhile, Amnesty International has put the figure of those killed during herdsmen- farmers clashes in the country within three years at 3,641.   Ne reprieve yet from armed robbery   On April 2, 2018, policemen attached to the Akwa Ibom State Command arrested  four bank robbers who were said to  have robbed a bank customer of N3.2million at gun point. They police said the robbers owned up to the offence, saying that was not their first time.   On April 5, this year, armed robbers invaded the premises of some banks in Offa, Kwara State, killing and maiming as they operated. About 12 policemen and no fewer than 30 other people were shot dead by the deadly criminals.   The bank robbers succeeded in their operation, carting away millions of Naira, leaving on their trail blood, sorrow and lamentation. .   On September 10, 2018, armed robbers killed a Catholic Reverend Father and another man in his company, in Nkwere, Imo State. The priest identified as Jude Egbuom was from Umuwala village in Nkwere.   Egbuom was the priest at St Patrick's Catholic Church in Njaba area of Imo State.   In November, a dare-devil armed robbers invaded a bank in Ijero - Ekiti, Ekiti State, killing two policemen , a security guard and a woman.   The gang was said to have arrived through Aramoko area and loaded their sophisticated weapons inside a casket. They had arrived at a police station in the area and shot two policemen dead. The chief security guard , who was beside the Automated Teller Machine when they arrived,  was also shot dead.   Abductions, kidnapping for ransom continue unabated   In February, Nigerians were shocked about the abduction of Dapchi school girls in Yobe State by suspected Boko Haram sect, when the dust was yet to settle on the kidnap of Chibok school girls .   Residents of Dapchi were attacked by the gunmen who shot sporadically while abducting the girls.   In Ondo State, three siblings, namely; Ayomide Raymond, 16, Joy Raymond, 19, and Peace Raymond , including their accomplice kidnapped a six -year-old girl from Kingdom Hall of Jehovah's Witness, in Oba- Ile,  Akure, Ondo State.   In September, two suspected kidnappers who stunned the world as they kidnapped a corpse from mortuary, demanding N5million ransom. The two suspected kidnappers, namely; Chukwudi Chukwu and Bethel Ibeh   were paraded by the Imo State Police Command before journalists.   The police said the owner of the mortuary, Charles Nwanshi, gave them the information which was used in trailing the suspects.   In June, Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr Imohimi Edgal,  paraded a suspected kidnapper, one Jumoke Adesida, who abducted a 2-year-old girl from her mother's shop at Odogunyan, Ikorodu. Edgal said he had to inform the officer in charge of Anti- kidnap Squad, SP Bulus Musa, who  swung into action as he led his squad to Ikorodu. The squad was able to locate the whereabouts of the kidnapper and also rescued the baby.   Adesida said she needed a baby to play with as her husband had taken her only child away from her .   In August, the Lagos Commissioner of Police , Edgal also paraded two suspected kidnappers, namely; Ebi Gabriel, 29, and Promise Ajele, 19, for planning to kidnap some notable personalities at Iba area of Lagos.   Edgal said he had to direct the Commander of Anti- Kidnapping, SP Bulus Musa to comb the area with his squad.   The Lagos State Police Command also rescued  a woman and her daughter  from kidnappers.   Edgal said one Alhaji Kabir Muraino 'm' , 55,  of Governor's Road, Ikotun, Lagos, reported at Ikotun Police Station that his wife, named Hadijat Kabir and his daughter , Hamidat Kemi, 18,  were kidnapped  on their way to the Psychiatrist Hospital, Oshodi, Lagos.  The kidnappers were demanding the sum of N15m before they would set the victims free.   Nigerians plead with Buhari   In view of all these and many others, Nigerians have  been calling  on the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to take the issue of general insecurity in the land seriously  and pursue the war against insurgents to a conclusive end because thousands of people are being killed in cold blood on a daily basis.   A lawyer, Andrew Ibezim,  asked the government to buy sophisticated war equipment to fight terrorism.   Ibezim argued that the government cannot succeed in the war if the enemies weapon are more sophisticated than the ones used by government soldiers.     A traditionalist and native doctor, Musibau Akani, said, "The government should consult native doctors who will prepare 'juju' for the protection of Nigerian soldiers against enemies' bullets.   "If our soldiers have 'juju'' ( native protector), the war against terrorism would have ended long time ago. When you shoot a Nigerian soldier and it did not penetrate, the insurgents would look elsewhere,” he said.   Findings by our correspondent indicate that, the year 2018 had so far seeing the insurgents unrelenting in their attacks on Nigerians as many have been killed by the terrorists in circumstances that could have been prevented.    