Residents of Ibeju Lekki Local Government, Lagos State have decried constant invasion  by hoodlums allegedly sponsored  by Toll system development limited. The residents alleged that the operation was spear headed by one Alhaji Owoeye and Mutairu Owoeye. Some of the resident of the community said, most of the roads that lead to the community have been blocked by the hoodlums. It was also said that some residents were inflicted with various injuries upon the hoodlums’ attack. “We can no more rest in our community. These people come often and seize peace. We have reported their activities to area J’ police command but it appears they are shielding them and that is why we are calling on the comissional of police, Inspector General of Police and other authority in the country to help us intervene. Apart from the fact that they have been blocking our roads,they have now started building barricade to divide the community “, a resident, Adewale Esan said. Another resident, Fatoyinbo John maintained that ” Several houses were destroyed by these people. They even removed the roof of a redeem church in our community. If anyone challenges them during their nefarious activities they will attack the person. Several residents have been attacked when they challenged them.  The chairman of the association Pa Victor Ajenifuja while appealing to authorities in the country said several residents were recently injured in attacks launched on them by the hoodlums. The chairman also revealed several  cases of the mischief caused by the hoodlums. He said, “Our right of way completely blocked, one cannot drive in and out of our community again. Our rights to movement is totally destroyed. We cannot bring in vehicles to convey goods and services. Our health facilities is poor also.” He also said that the roof of a Redeemed chruch was removed, schools shut down and also cases of patient’s emergency  not feasible “On the case of Land invasion, several lands have been taken away from the community residents. The residents also expressed dismay in the situation saying the hoodlums claim to be government officials and destroying their community. They said they would not leave the residence for hoodlums. “This is injustice, How can hoodlums go around terrorizing our communities? Brandishing, fake ID, pistols etc claiming to be  Government officia? Please note, no amount of threats, intimadation, harassment would make us run from our community”. This is Kidnapping and forceful imprisonment, we shall legally pursue and get justice”, a resident said anonymously. Speaking on their determination, Pa Ajenifuja said, “Though they boast about to our members that they own the court, government and all connections, it will not deter us from fighting for justice in the court of law.” The Lagos Police Public Relation Officer,  Chike Oti could not be reached as at press time over the case. 