Tom Garba,Yola The Black Cap Movement, a group founded, based on the political ideologies of the pioneer Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, has revolted against its founder by swaying its loyalty to Governor Jibrilla Bindo of Adamawa State. One of the founding members of the Movement, who is at the forefront of realising the Ribadu political dream, Ibrahim Jalingo, said more than half of the members of the group had shifted their loyalty to Bindo because of his focus and resolve at ensuring that Adamawa State was developed. Jalingo added that their decision to support Bindo was also based on their position to the alleged exploitative attitude of the leader of the group, Mustapha Atiku Ribadu. According to him, Mustapha Atiku is running the group like a one-man-show; without being accountable on how the resources coming in and going out are applied. He explained that the leader of the group had breached the principles of integrity and forthrightness for which it was known. He lamented that as a result of Mustapha Atiku’s conduct, many people now saw the group as being bad and evil, adding that “many people now resent the group for attacking senior citizens of the state rather than promoting unity and peace in the state.” Jalingo revealed that during the group’s formal meeting to sheath their swords against Governor Bindo, “Mustapha Atiku later retreated to stand alone.” He maintained that the founding members of the group were now supporting the governor to ensure that APC, at all levels in the state, formed the next government. He said, “We are tired of being sycophants and stooges of Mustapha Atiku Ribadu who uses us as conduit pipes to extort money from other politicians. We cannot all be in the same place in our state for God sake. Both Bindo and Mallam Nuhu (Ribadu) are sons of the same APC father; why would he be using us to fight our governor who is doing well? “I want the world to know the whole truth: Mustapha is not having the interest of Adamawa State at heart. His interest is to make money in the name of leading the group.” In his response, Mustapha Atiku frowned on the way by which some members of the group declared their loyalty to Bindo without intimating Mallam Ribadu, their principal. He described as untrue, the allegation that he (Mustapha Atiku) was using his position as leader of the group to exploit politicians in the state, saying the group was not a public liability company (Plc). “Ibrahim Umar Jalingo is from Taraba State; he is not an indigene of Adamawa State so he should leave me as an indigene of Adamawa to address the issues. I can’t support the governor (Bindo) without the go-ahead of our principal, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu. He must tell me the direction to follow at all levels of Adamawa politics,” Mustapha Atiku said. 