Oluwatosin Obajemu As entry for 2019 Cowbellpedia Secondary Schools Mathematics TV Quiz Show formally commences, Promasidor Nigeria Limited, makers of Cowbell Milk, has reiterated its commitment to the improvement of science, technology, engineering and mathematics education in Nigeria. The Managing Director of the company, Mr. Anders Einarsson, said this recently while shedding light on the company’s initiatives on education in the country. He noted that Cowbell had been involved in the improvement of the standard of Mathematics education in Nigeria in the last 21 years. He disclosed that the Cowbellpedia initiative was a platform to identify, showcase and reward excellence in the subject.  “I am also assuring you that Promasidor Nigeria would continue to encourage young Nigerians to pursue their dreams. Besides Cowbellpedia, Harness Your Dream, a career awareness workshop for public secondary schools is another platform through which we shape the lives of our future leaders,” he said. These initiatives, he explained, had triggered the interest of students in Mathematics at the secondary school level and further reinforced its importance in the growth of modern economies. Like in previous editions, Eirnarson said the Cowbellpedia Secondary Schools Mathematics TV Quiz Show was free and open to students in JSS3 and SSS2, from ages 10 to 18, attending full time secondary education in both public and private schools in the country. The competition is divided into two phases: Stage 1 is for qualifying written examination while Stage 2 is TV quiz show. Einarsson appealed to mixed secondary schools to nominate a minimum of two female students for each category in the brand’s effort to encourage girl child interest in STEM courses. “Research has shown that a positive relationship exists between girl child education and the GDP of a nation,” he explained. According to him, the ultimate prize for this year’s edition is N2 million and an all-expense paid educational excursion outside the country. The first and second runners-up will go home with N1.5 million and N1 million respectively.  Teacher of the top prize winner will be awarded with the sum of N500, 000, while those of the first and second runners-up will get N400, 000 and N300, 000 respectively. The Marketing Manager of Promasidor Nigeria, Mr. Abiodun Ayodeji, explained that registration for this year is strictly online and the portal for registration, which opened on Monday, October1, 2018, would be closed on Sunday, February 3, 2019, while the qualifying examination would take place, nationwide, on Saturday, February 9, 2019 at designated centres. Each participating school is required to present its best 10 students in Mathematics (five from JSS3 and five from SSS2), irrespective of sex, religion, tribe or state of 
origin. 