Campaign activities for the 2019 presidential, gubernatorial, and other elective positions in the national and state assemblies have reached a high point. But unlike in the run up to the 2015 elections, when the two major parties – the Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressives Congress – sought the votes of the electorate by dwelling on both the issues-based and character assassination modes of campaign, the 2019 campaign style, so far, seems to have been totally devoid of issues. Recall that in a bid to make the political parties run clean and modern political campaigns, devoid of rancour and violence, and also to ensure that the campaigns of bitterness and acrimony of yesteryears were jettisoned, the political parties had signed a memorandum of good behaviour among themselves. But, of recent, the parties, their contestants, particularly those of the APC and PDP, seem to have thrown caution to the wind with their campaigns getting more vicious and provocative. As the elections draw nearer, many of the supporters, especially of the two major parties, have resorted to fabricating lies and peddling wild claims, supported by stale, fake or doctored visuals, to confuse the electorate in favour of their candidates in a way that exposes the political environment to unbearable heat. This is against the spirit and letter of the memorandum of good behaviour, signed by the political parties, that they would run clean and non-violent political campaigns. However, these could even be referred to as mild negatives, compared to the incessant violent attacks during campaign rallies. In this regard, accusing fingers have been pointed more at the ruling APC. Pockets of attacks in Ogun, Kogi, Oyo, and parts of the northern states have left many supporters seriously injured, while some have even lost their lives. All parties must be aware that what could be termed as “do or die” politics of intimidation, which starts during campaigns, is the first sure step towards a grossly manipulated election, and Nigerians must do everything possible to prevent this. We, therefore, condemn, in its entirety, the use of thugs to scatter peaceful rallies, and call on the Federal Government to ensure that Nigeria’s security agencies carry out their protection of lives and property roles without bias. We also wish to categorically state that it is indeed distasteful for any candidate or party to make disparaging and untrue remarks about the opposition in a way that negates what modern political campaigns should look like in Africa’s largest democracy. A ruling party should not be desperate to remain in power such that its top hierarchy would resort to the use of all manners of name-calling and outbursts against candidates and personalities of opposing political parties. Those in the opposition must also refrain from the use of uncomplimentary remarks on candidates of the ruling party, at the state or at the federal level. Our campaigns, at this stage of our democracy, must be issues-based. Rather than treading this ignoble path, the candidates should tell the electorate how they intend to solve the myriad problems of the country if they win the election. We would have loved, for instance, a situation where the parties would particularly tell Nigerians how they will tackle the traffic logjam in Apapa, Lagos, which is, daily, robbing the nation of billions of naira in revenue. They should tell us how they will walk the talk of improving electric power supply, rather than ruling for four years and repeating the age-long politicians’ excuse: “the sector can’t be transformed in only four years.” How, in clear language, will they put a stop to the endless killing of innocent Nigerians, right under the noses of those who should protect them? Nigerians would also have loved to listen to how they intend to better achieve diversification of the economy and significantly improve manufacturing in the country, ensure abundant job opportunities across the economy, raise the GDP of the country, achieve improved standard of living for all Nigerians and take Nigeria away from the list of the poorest of the poor 
countries. A political campaign is an organised effort, which seeks to influence the decision making process within a specific group. Though different materials, adverts or articles influence groups differently, the proliferation of doctored video clips on major actors in the current political space, are doing more harm to the efforts, aimed at values reorientation in our dear country. If politicians must influence the electorate in favour of their party, the most constructive way to do so, especially for those that have been there before, is to roll out achievements recorded within a four-year period. Failure to do so convincingly should tell a discerning voter that he should try the next candidate and see if there will be a better story after four years. Right now, many Nigerians are wiser and will vote, based on merit. Voting may not even be along party lines anymore; the individuals must be able to impress. We, therefore, implore everyone to stay away from violence and hate speeches as campaign activities reach their peak. Above all, the Federal Government must provide a fair playing ground for all. 