I want divorce, hubby says A housewife, Fatimo Ajibola, has told a customary court sitting in Ake, Abeokuta, Ogun State, that she cooks for her husband’s concubine to avoid trouble in her matrimonial home. Fatimo, who was brought before the court by her husband, Jelili, said she was always forced to cook for her husband’s mistress to avoid trouble with her husband and mother-in-law. The wife, a baby wears seller, said her husband and his concubine usually ate the food prepared by her whenever she visited. The woman told the court that her mother-in-law lives with them at their Bodeolude Housing Estate residence, Elega, Abeokuta. Fatimo, who said she got married to Jelili in 2012, said her husband was fond of bringing his concubine to their matrimonial home to have sex with her, especially whenever she was not around. She explained further that she decided not to complain about her husband’s extra marital affairs because her mother-in-law was always picking up a fight with her whenever she did. The woman said that she decided to travel to Lagos for her business for six months to avoid trouble with her mother-in-law. According to Fatimo, on getting back from Lagos, her husband was already married to his mistress and the duo had been living like husband and wife. She said, “I know my husband always brings his concubine home but I couldn’t talk because I wanted to avoid trouble with him and his mother. “I knew if I talked, his mother would challenge me not to trouble his son and allow him to live in peace. My husband was always bringing the girl to our home and I used to cook for them. I even ate from the food after cooking.” The disturbed woman added, “I didn’t bother because I didn’t want trouble with him and his mother. My husband used to have sex with the girl in our home. I had to travel to Lagos to avoid trouble. “On getting back, his concubine had packed her belongings to our house and I met my husband and the girl living like husband and wife in our matrimonial home.” The estranged husband confessed to the court that he was having extra marital affairs with his mistress because his wife was always not satisfied with whatever he gave to her. Jelili, who is seeking a divorce with his wife, said she is not caring and always provokes him. He said he was unhappy that his wife left him for Lagos for six months “all in the name of doing business”. The man said he always tried to satisfy his wife but she was unappreciative. He explained that he gave her N100,000 for her baby wears business but that she abandoned him for business afterwards. He said, “It is true that I had a concubine. My wife is not content with whatever I give her. I had given her N100,000 for her baby wears business but she was not satisfied. “She travelled to Lagos to continue the business where she only earned N10,000 monthly.” In the meantime, the President of the court, Mrs O. O. Sam-Obaleye, appealed to the man to do away with his concubine and resolve with his wife and do everything possible to make peace between his mother and wife. 