 There was mild drama in Osogbo, the Osun State capital recently, when a fun-seeking young man accused a female sex worker of attempting to sell his semen to ritualists for money.   The man, who gave his name as Dagger (not real name) went wild with a sex worker at Angle 90, a popular brothel in Osogbo over an allegation that she stowed away the condom, which he used, while having sex with her. Claiming that the commercial sex worker intended to use his semen to make money, the man insisted on having the used condom back. Problem ensued when the brothel worker failed to produce the used condom. According to an eyewitnesses, Dagger had left the brothel without any sign that there was problem, but returned shortly after to demand for the used condom.   The commercial sex worker, apparently shocked, told Dagger that she had disposed the condom immediately he left.   However, bubble burst when, in order to confirm that she actually disposed the condom as claimed, Dagger asked her to show him where she trashed it, but the sex worker reportedly could not produce it. Other people were attracted to the scene as the commercial sex worker and his customer exchanged hot arguments. Efforts to settle the rift between them was abortive as the duo continued to cast aspersions on each other. While relaying his own side of the story, Dagger said, “I just started patronising her. After I finished with her, I forgot to take the used condom along with me. I remembered a few minutes after I left the brothel. "When I returned to demand for it, she said that she had swept and trashed it in the bin. I didn't believe her because what we now hear is that they resort to selling customers' sperm to ritualists. I don't want to fall victim because I paid her before she agreed to offer her body to me. She can't sell my sperm; I will not allow that.” When our correspondent visited the brothel to get reactions from the sex workers on the allegation, they declined comments. One of them simply said, "Oga we don't want to see journalists here."  