President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday visited Osogbo, the Osun State capital in continuation of his nationwide campaign ahead of the coming general election. Buhari, in company with his vice, Prof. Yemi  Osinbajo, and other prominent leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) called for the support of traditional rulers in the state. Mr President, while speaking with the traditional rulers at the Osun State Government House, Oke-Fia, Osogbo, called for their support for improved security in the country. He said his administration had made positive progress in areas of security, economy and  corruption fight in the country. While highlighting his administration’s successes in agriculture, Buhari said his government would do more in order to make agriculture more attractive.  “With our intervention in agriculture,  we have achieved food security. We now produce what we eat. “I directed the CBN governor not to provide foreign exchange for anyone who wants to import food into the country except those who want to invest in the country”, he said. On security,  he urged the traditional rulers to  assist government by securing their communities. The President said, “Since 2013 till date,  I always request to see the traditional rulers in any state I travel to because of their closeness to the people. “I always appeal to them to secure the society by securing their communities”. Buhari appealed to the traditional rulers to ensure that their subjects eschew violence during the coming elections. In his remarks,  Governor Adegboyega Oyetola said people of the state would vote massively for Mr President come February 16. The Orangun of Ila, Oba Wahab Oyedotun, who spoke on behalf of other traditional rulers on the occasion, said the good works of the president  was enough to ensure his victory . “Mr President,  you don’t have any problem in Osun; you are winning. You don’t need to campaign because of the  good works you have done in the state and the country,” Oba Oyedotun said. On hand at the campaign were the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomole and former governor of the state among others. 