The lawmaker representing Oyo South Senatorial District, Senator Adesoji Akanbi, has called on the people of Oyo South and Oyo State, in general, to stand up and fight to protect their civic rights, which the ruling party has begun to infringe upon. The senator, who is re-contesting for a second term on the platform of the African Democratic Congress, accused the Governor Abiola Ajimobi-led APC government in the state of impeding his activities of community development. He said this, at the weekend, while addressing one of the communities in his senatorial district. Akanbi said, “Silence brings peace. Being amicable with your adversaries does the same as well. But there comes a time when your threshold of tolerance for all that is evil and unjust gets exceeded. Such is the present situation of our party and electorate, due to the malicious nature of the ruling party. “On the 25th of January 2019, in fulfillment of our selfless service towards the people of Ibadan, our workers were at the Adelabu market to install solar powered street lights, which the market community requested for. While we thought all political parties had the good will of the people at heart, it was surprising to see our workers arrested in the most unlawful way by the police, who were led by a pun of the ruling party in the person of Alhaji Balogun who is the Baba Oloja of the market. It was a chaotic scene yesterday that marked the height of the callousness of the ruling party.” The lawmaker said, to make matters worse, the ruling party had resorted to threatening the marketers and the good people of Ibadan not to vote for ADC or allow the party to do projects for them “else, they will suffer if they get into office.” He noted, “Without a doubt, previous and current events have shown that the ruling party in Oyo State is a group of morally deprived people who do not care for the electorate. While we have continously been responsible and accountable to our electorate, the past, which cannot be changed or rewritten, has shown that they have not been responsible for/to their people, and with our projects and good works not being able to be torn or destroyed, their fears are heightened, and they will strive to make sure our projects are not implemented. “For long, have we endured and kept mute about the destruction of our banners, billboards and posters, but with this recent event, no longer can we keep quiet about the injustice being done to us. So, I hereby oblige my people to stand up for our rights and put an end to the tyrany of the ruling party.” 