There can be no doubting the fact that the time offer comprehensive support to people living with HIV/AIDS is now. This is as research has shown that non -communicable diseases are becoming a growing problem in people living with HIV/AIDS. It is also documented that some antiretroviral drugs may increase the risk of heart diseases and diabetes among this set of people while HIV itself increases the risk of some cancers. A health advocate and the convener of The Wellbeing Initiative, Toyyib Oladimeji Abdulkareem, actually explains that these things happen because of the alterations that the infection causes to the body. He maintains that for specific diseases, the pathological pathway to disease onset would be followed through research works bearing in mind the infection affects the immune system and other body organs. Getting help from others has been proven to be the first step towards getting through a health crisis for PLWAs. But  how do people living with HIV go about getting this help in the face of increasing stigmatisation from others, which fuels resentment in them? The Head, HIV Counselling and Testing unit 82 division at the Military Hospital, Enugu, Hart Kingsley Akabuike, agrees that stigma can emanate from self or people. He said that , in recent years,  the struggle of people living with HIV opening up to the public has reduced but not as much as anticipated by the United Nations project 9; there’s still this rejection that comes if one discloses one’s HIV status when applying for work, for 
instance. The employer tends to withdraw the offer or come up with an excuse that the position is already filled; then there’s the learning environment which unfortunately is another breeding ground for stigma and discrimination. Nonetheless, support comes in many forms and places. Example is motivating a friend or a family who is living with HIV/AIDS by way of encouraging them to stay on treatment, practice safe sex and positively reminding them that they can still live a healthy life and achieve their dreams. It is on record that for the 1.1 million persons living with HIV/AIDs are currently on treatment in Nigeria. For them, families could be the major support system because there’s no substitute for family and 
friendship. Psychotherapists believe that helping someone with HIV can be stressful but very rewarding too, because aside the emotional support, one might be helping them figure out how to work through the medical system. Truth is around 1 in 3 persons  living with HIV have symptoms of depression at some point in their lives. Social and mental support is such an important factor in developing and maintaining healthy lifestyle and mental wellbeing behaviours. It is therefore important that we consciously lend our support to loved ones as it is a scary thing not being able to confide in anyone of your deepest fears or worries for the fear of been judged or discriminated against. If we remember everyday that we could lose someone at any moment, we would show love to them more fiercely and without fear- not because there is nothing to lose, but everything to gain. EKENE ODIGWE 