In their intents to ensure adequate social responsibility roles, organizers of the maiden edition of Lagos achievers award have moved to honour Lagos citizens who have done well in their various endeavours. The event which will hold on January 27, at Muson Centre Onikan, Lagos, is expected to feature the maiden edition of Lagos Most Beautiful Girl beauty pageant Speaking at a press briefing to herald the events, the project manager and Chief Executive Officer, CEO of Tripple ‘O’ Entertainment, Dapo Obasun, said the Lagos Most Beautiful Girl, unlike some pageants, has adopted a unique way of selecting its winners. According to him, the winners will not only be selected by the judges but also by viewers at home, stating that the event will be streamed live. “What specifically differentiates this is because this pageantry is unique,” Obasun said. “It is not a pageant whereby we already have our winners. It’s not just about the judges alone but we have adopted a new system where we have our screen and a whole lot of people will be watching and will be privileged to vote because it would be streamed live.” The project manager further disclosed that the winner will cruise home with 500 dollars with a year hair extension and clothe sponsorship by their partners. “The star prize is 500 Dollars and we have a company sponsoring their hair for a year and a clothing line also.” Over 40 contestants have however arrived the camp at Takwa Bay beach, where they will be going through proper orientation and skills acquisition. “Since they arrived in camp we have been training them on several skills as entrepreneurs so they can also be useful to their immediate environments and Nigeria at large. As we all know that many girls are on street jobless who don’t know what to do but with this, we will boost their entrepreneurial skills”. Speaking on the Lagos Achievers Award, Obasun said the award was meant to recognise the “success and vitality of all sectors in Nigeria”. He said the award was specifically established to “acknowledge, encourage and celebrate excellence” in the different sectors, with a view to giving them opportunities to gain “valuable global exposure and recognition”. Also speaking, the project Public Relations Officer, PRO, Becky Joe, the event was to promote lifestyle and entertainment industry in Lagos as a critical sector in the state. Joe added that the event, which has the full support of the Lagos State government, would further project the state as a leading entertainment hub of Nigeria and Africa. The PRO said for further information on the programme, ticket sales and voting, details are available on the organisation’s website. She stressed that the event, which will commence at 3 pm with red carpet, would be “thrilling and scintillating.” In her remark, Mrs Toyin Iyoha, representing Lush Hair, the official sponsor of the events, said “At Lush Hair, we believe so much in Nigeria and in Lagos State, the commercial hub and beauty of the country. “You know as women our hair defines us; it is the centre of beauty to us and attention. Without our hair, nobody will pay much attention and even if you don’t like to make your hair you can wear a wig. “Lush Hair is all about beauty, so we are beautifying the face of these events by sponsoring it 100%,” she stressed 