 A security man has reportedly thrown decorum to the dogs as he bit off his wife’s nipple in a fight over soup money at Langbasa village, Lagos.   It was learnt that the incident happened when a man identified as Emmanuel Inyang, from Akwa Ibom State, set for work at Lekki.   A fight broke out between Inyang and Mercy, his wife, as he was about to leave his one-room apartment at their Adekunle Close residence, when his wife asked him to put money down for soup for the household.   She reportedly clutched the man's shirt when he refused to grant her request.   In her rage, she reportedly threatened that unless the man gave her money to cook the soup, she would not allow him to leave the house.   Her husband allegedly gave her the sum of N500 but she rejected it, screamed and began to call the man unprintable names.       Mary, their only daughter said, “My mother held daddy by the collar. I pleaded with her to leave daddy alone but she refused. Daddy said he had no money. He gave my mother N500. My mother argued that he must make the money up to N1, 500.”   She quoted her mother as saying, “You are a shameless man. You are not going anywhere. When coming from work you would go and drink alcohol with your money but to provide food at home, you found it very difficult. That must stop today.   "All my money for petty trading has gone down. I will be providing food for everybody while you will be going about drinking alcohol. I will follow you to that your company today. I will disgrace you there. My father became very angry and decided to remove her hand off his shirt by force. My mother was still holding on to the shirt.   "My father then squeezed her hands and removed them from his shirt. That was when my mother did a stupid thing. She held his private part and daddy screamed. I was crying as I told my mother to stop it. Suddenly, my father grabbed my mother's left breast and bit the nipple off. He chopped off my mother’s nipple. Imagine the pains she is going through now.   "I had to run down to Badore Road, Langbasa, to call my mother's younger brother, who quickly ran alongside his friends to the scene. On sighting us, my father escaped from the backyard.   "I have not seen him since then. His mobile phone is not going through. I went to his office but they said he did not come to work.”   On the health of the injured woman, Mary said, “We had to carry her to a private hospital where she was given first aid treatment before they referred her to the general hospital.   "It was a shameful thing for me. I know that my mother was fighting a just course but she took it too far. Why did she hold his private part? Did she want to kill my dad? But my father should have endured - why should he bite her to the extent that he bit off her nipple. I’m ashamed of their behaviours.   “Now, he (her father) is nowhere to be found while my mother is in the hospital writhing in pains. If not for my mother's relation, what would I have done over this issue? Where would I get the money to carry her to the hospital?”  