A political associate of  Dr. Olusegun  Mimiko, the immediate past governor of Ondo State, Chief  Emmanuel Onileowo, has berated the performances of security agencies he accused of failing to bring to justice to those he claimed allegedly destroyed his once- thriving Oremeji Aluminum and Steel  industry. In a one-page affidavit No RNOO77183 deposed to at the High Court Registry, sitting at Ondo, and made available to members of the press, the embattled Chief described himself as a long standing family friend of Miniko, noting that, as expected, he had thrown his weight and resources behind his friend throughout his tenure as the Governor of Ondo State. He averred that unknown to him, certain elements had seen his harmless support for his long time friend as a mortal sin for which he was now paying for. He revealed that he had suffered collateral damages to his personal properties, including the emotional, mental torture that he was still contending with. Trouble, he said , started for him when Mimiko,  on completion of his mandatory two term as Ondo State governor, failed in his bid to make his candidate emerge as the next Governor. Onilowo said he and his fellow sympathisers of Mimiko and their family members were viciously attacked and their businesses allegedly destroyed by those he alleged were members of the opposition. He alleged that between the 7th and 17th September, 2017, he was physically assaulted by some suspected political thugs, street urchins and miscreants, saying that by the time they left hom, his business interests had been vandalised forcing him to close his company. He further alleged that as a result of the beating he received from the rampaging political thugs and street urchins, he was admitted at the State Specialist Hospital, Ondo for close to five months. He noted that as a result of the medical bills he incurred during his long stay at the state specialist Hospital, he was not able to raise the resources that would have injected life into his Oremeji Aluminum and Steel Works,  more so, as the damages to machines and other working materials were enormous. He said while he was still ruminating on how to source funds to revive his business, hell was again let loose as the hoodlums came back on the 3rd of October 2017,  and by the time they left , it was the ruins of what was once his source of livelihood, he was bequeathed with. He noted that as a result of the unfortunate incident, he could no longer provide some basic needs for members of his family while some of his children had been forced out of school as he could no longer afford their educational expenses. 