The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote and the Group Executive Vice Chairman of SIFAX Group, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, have joined other stakeholders in the country’s maritime sector to hail fresh initiatives by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency  towards realisation of a robust maritime industry. Speaking before weekend’s maritime awardsin Lagos, Dangote expressed delight in the achievements the maritime sector had attained in recent times and applauded the leading role NIMASA was playing to ensure an all-inclusive administration of the sector. “We are proud of the modest achievements the maritime sector has attained in recent times. NIMASA has continued to take the lead by providing direction for operators in the industry. On our part, we will continue to support the Agency’s drive to reposition the Nigerian maritime sector,” Dangote said. Also speaking ahead of the event, Afolabi noted that NIMASA had done well in the enforcement of safety standards in the sector and provided a level playing field for stakeholders in the industry to overcome various challenges by creating a mechanism that listens and gives feedbacks. He said the NIMASA maritime awards ceremony will go a long way in propelling industry players to make more effort towards achieving a robust maritime sector. “As a key agency in the maritime sector, NIMASA has done well in the enforcement of safety standards and initiatives. It has helped all players in the industry overcome various challenges by providing a mechanism that listens and provides feedback to all stakeholders. This award ceremony will go a long way in charging all stakeholders to be up and doing in the daily discharge of their duties, knowing that NIMASA is watching keenly to reward excellence. With this initiative, our blue economy will surpass expectations,” Afolabi said. Meanwhile, the Director General of NIMASA, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has stated that the event would be an avenue for maritime stakeholders to commit more to excellence and share ideas on how to realise a strong maritime sector. 