“You can’t be wrong and get right, no matter how you may try.” This is the assertion by  legendary Jimmy Cliff in his world-acclaimed song. The assertion by the late Jamaican-born reggae star is valid and not contestable, yesterday, today, tomorrow and forever. It is a statement of fact and not a comment. As we known in journalism, facts are sacred and comment is superfluous.  It is indeed one of the tragedies for the nation to suddenly discover itself in terror war it never bargained for and which is eating deeply into the fabric of the nation, causing nightmare, especially to the citizens of the affected zone. It is also sapping the nation’s treasury, creating distrust and outright bitterness amongst the people and inflicting deaths, blood and sorrow on the people who for the past decade found themselves in a circumstance they could not comprehend. Rather than the joy and satisfaction in the number of projects executed and how the government policies and programmes have touched the lives of the people, the governments of the terror devastated states, especially Borno are at the mercy of the gravitational pull of the insurgency or terrorism – no thanks to  Boko Haram. Boko Haram sect has almost, if not already, through its heinous acts and barbarism, qualified Borno for the appellation of Shakespeare “architecture of ruins.” The proverbial “seeing is believing” cannot be more true than for one to come down to Borno (hold it, many will not for obvious fear) and see the orgy  of destruction and man inhumanity to man visited on the state by the insurgents. Take a trip from Maiduguri, the state capital, first to the southern senatorial zone and cap this with the same to Borno Central and Borno North. You will have a feel, if not tears, for the eyes. You will experience and see tattered lives, broken limbs, broken homes, looted barns and other atrocities. The irony of it all is the question you will ask yourself that how come, in the midst of these awful destructions, there are still abundant evidence of development in places? The answer is expected from Governor Kashim Shettima. However, it is pertinent to point out here that former President Olusegun Obasanjo; Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the leader of the All Progressives Congress; Hajiya Aisha Buhari, the wife of President Buhari; Vice President, Professor Yemo Osibajo; were witnesses to the feat of Governor Shettima as they were in Borno for one thing or the other and some of them commissioned some of these laudable projects. But for Governor Shettima, instead of commissioning some of his projects, he is preoccupied and overwhelmed for years with burial ceremonies, condolence visits to victims of the insurgency, rehabilitation and resettlement of the Internally Displaced  Persons . For now, the official number of the orphans in Borno stood at above 50,000, widows at about 60,000 and number of the IDPs at about two million with the loss of destroyed infrastructure, including educational institutions, hospitals and others at the sum of  N1.9 trillion. Both destruction of infrastructure and killings by the insurgents are still on the increase as these have not abated. It is a fact that since the inception of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, the terror war has been substantially tamed. While it may be safe or assumed that no single local government council is in the firm grip of the insurgents as hitherto when they held sway of a number of local government councils, it is not disputed that they are still around, scattered and wrecking havoc to both civilian population and military formations. This, indeed, is causing headache and nightmare to all, especially with recent upsurge of the insurgents’ atrocities. Unable to bear the onslaught and upsurge of the insurgency on Borno State any longer, Governor Shettima was compelled for the first time in seven and half years of his eight year tenure to summon Borno stakeholders’ meeting to brainstorm and find lasting solution to the unending crisis. The stakeholders met and have since submitted their findings, decisions and requests to the Federal Government for action. In addition, the Federal Government has taken some measures to tame the insurgents. For example, President Buhari met the leaders of some neighbouring countries with a view to collaborating efforts to fight the insurgency while assuring the Nigerian military of Federal Government’s total support to bring this ugly situation to an end.  Though the recent onslaught and the prowl of the insurgents have become a matter of grave concern, the immediate response by the Nigerian military in Borno and Yobe States was decisive and encouraging. The land and air forces were able to repel the attacks of the enemies. However, the probing and pricking questions now are: How long can we continue in this endless war? Have we diagnosed properly to know the right cure for this cancerous disease that is plaguing the nation? If measures we have put in place so far to end this insurgency have failed, then there is the need to go back to the drawing board to reassess and re-strategise. Besides, the role of one or two of our neighbouring countries needs a cautious approach and discerning mind as not all that glitters could be gold. Let’s remember that sometime back, the military indicted some elite and politicians in the Northeast, especially Borno, of frustrating the efforts of the military to subjugate the insurgency. Similarly, the Borno State Elders Forum at one time or the other accused the military of prolonging the terror war for its own interest. In short, in the ongoing terror war, there has been accusation and counter -accusations by one group or the other on who is prolonging this menace.  The military itself should look inward for possible fifth columnists within as frequent ambush by the insurgents is likely to have input from the enemies within. There is need for another hard look at the proliferation of arms in  the country. Besides, who are the sponsors of Boko Haram? It is also imperative to have another look at our carrot and stick option in dealing with the insurgents to avoid the carrot option being abused to the detriment of the nation. Let’s keep eagle eye on our borders. Besides, are all the stakeholders in this venture ready to call off the insurgency? Are the concerned ready to do the needful? How sincere are we all in the collective effort to end this excruciating tragedy that has gripped the nation? Let us tell ourselves the truth. For it is the truth that will save us. Let us recall the saying or view of an American President who pointed to the fact that  if what he said is right and it is right, ten thousand angels cannot make it wrong and vice versa. Therefore, if steps or efforts so far at ending the insurgency are faulty and in the wrong direction, we can never get it right, no matter how we may try. To get it right we must do it right. 