In efforts to reduce the level of corruption in Nigeria, the federal government has been implored to ensure adequate empowerment of anti-corruption agencies across the country. At the lunch of Nigeria’s country report on the implementation of the African Union Convention for Preventing and combatting corruption in Lagos by Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) and others, the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration was charged to ensuring that the fight against corruption it started is successful. Speaking at the programme, Mr Tunde Samon, one of the facilitators at the event, said more is requested from the ongoing administration, especially in empowering the law enforcers in the country. “We realize that there are lots of laws in the legislative framework that are targeted at criminalizing corruption and preventive measures but the level of implementation is not commensurate. That is, there is a lot of efforts is required in ensuring compliance. Then we have accessed the capacity of our anti-corruption agency. First of all, the government must adequately fund those anti-corruption agencies; they must enhance their capacity to do thorough investigation and prosecution. It was even advised that EFCC office should be established in every local government in the country so that people can have direct access to report to them because at the end of the day the consequence of corruption affects everybody and if we will continue this level we have found ourselves in this country. And going forward we must help the government, the society and ourselves to fight the corruption. Meanwhile, the executive director of the Civil Society Legislative Advocate Centre, Auwal Musa, has said individuals across the country must put efforts together to end corruption. “This is a call to action to everyone in doing whatever it takes towards ensuring that the issue of corruption in whatever sense is adequately addressed in the country and the action adopted a number of strategies which included a study on the level of implementation of the convention in Nigeria” The founder of a non-Governmental Organisation, His Marvelous Grace Support Foundation Oluwadamisi Ladega, has called on religious leaders to lead the fight against corruption in Nigeria. “These set of people have a role to play to fight corruption. When they are involved in the fight, things will be better because they influence the grassroots. Let the churches and mosques begin to talk more about corruption. Let the traditional rulers across each state and the CDA’s come together to sensitise the grass root. As individuals, we need to talk to ourselves to end corruption because the change starts from us. We need transparency; unity, integrity and we need to speak out.” The Executive Director, Community Women’s Right Foundation, Comrade Lateef Akinborode, in his contribution maintained that “Nigeria has been battling with corruption over the years; it cannot be eradicated in two years. What we need to do is to start educating the younger generation on the need to shun corruption. We should let them know what the law says about corruption and let the law prevail on all those involved in any form of corrupt practices”. 