AYO ESAN,
ABUJA The Peoples’
Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organization (PPCO) has  charged the National Assembly to save
Nigeria  from imminent political crisis
by immediately commencing the process of the removal of President Muhammadu
Buhari’s niece, Mrs. Amina Zakari, from the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC). Addressing
the media in Abuja on Friday, the Director, Media and Publicity, PDP
Presidential Campaign Organization, (PPCO) , Mr Kola Ologbondiyan said the
party’s position is predicated on the fact that ,”it is clear to all, that
Amina Zakari’s uncle, President Buhari, having been rejected by Nigerians, is
now using her as virus to compromise the independence of the commission,
manipulate the electoral process and rig the Presidential election for
him”. “The
Buhari Presidency has been using Amina Zakari to bear pressure on INEC even to
the extent of brazenly foisting her as the collation officer for the
Presidential election to enable President Buhari announce himself as
winner”. The PPCO
holds that a credible electoral commission must be completely impartial,
transparent, totally independent and immune from external control by interested
entities saying these are qualities INEC can no longer lay claim to as long as
Amina Zakari remains a member of the commission. “By
foisting Mrs. Amina Zakari to lead the final process of the election, President
Buhari is seeking a way to annex INEC, practically, take over the collation of
results, and announce himself the winner. “This
is a clear invitation to anarchy and a huge political crisis capable of
derailing our democracy because Nigerians, across the board, are already in
vehement rejection of this self-succession plot and are now, more than ever
before, ready to use every necessary means available and accessible to them in
a democracy to protect our democratic process. “Furthermore,
as long as Amina Zakari remains in INEC, the commission cannot be trusted. It
will interest Nigerians to know that following public outcry against her nomination,
Amina Zakari’s agents, last night, surreptitiously attempted to compromise the
media by sending secret messages to emails of editors with the view to water
down and sway the direction of information on her provocative appointment to
lead the collation of Presidential election results. PPCO alleged
that it has been informed of how Mrs. Zakari led other top INEC officials to a
secret meeting with some top officials of the Buhari Campaign Organization
(BCO) in Abuja on ways to introduce the controversial Incidence Form under a
new name and use such to manipulate the collation of results. “We
therefore urge Nigerians and lovers of democracy all over the world to unite in
condemning this scheme by the Buhari Presidency to use Amina Zakari to enmesh
our election in unnecessary controversy and trigger a political crisis in our
country, just because they have realized that President Buhari cannot win the
Presidential election. “President
Buhari and Amina Zakari should know that Nigerians have made up their minds in
rallying behind our Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, as their next
president and no amount of machination, shenanigans and scheming will stop this
resolve. “We
want the world to note how our Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, has been
traversing the length and breadth of our nation campaigning and winning the
support of millions of compatriots with his message of hope and practical
solutions to myriads of our national problems for which Nigerians have attained
a consensus to elect him as their next President. “Instead
of campaigning, President Buhari, having realized that Nigerians are no longer
interested in his empty promises and display of incompetence, has rather
resorted to seeking ways to manipulate the electoral processes and foist
himself back to power against the wishes of Nigerians. The PPCO
unequivocally stated that the Buhari Presidency will never have its way in
rigging this election through a self-succession strategy. We insist that, in
this election, votes must count and only the will of Nigerians, as expressed at
the ballot will prevail. The PPCO
therefore urged Nigerians to brace up to the challenge and stand for democracy
by getting ready to vote, protect their votes to the very end and ensure that
their choice of Atiku Abubakar as their next President is not subverted by
anybody, no matter how highly placed. 