 MATTHEW DIKE Colleagues
of the Nigerian Air Force two Pilots and three crew who died in a NAF
helicopter crash on Wednesday while providing support to the soldiers attached
to the 145 Battalion, Damasak, Borno State have lamented their death, saying
both Pilots were among the best in the world. Most of
their colleagues wore long faces when our correspondent visited Sam Ethan Air
Force Base, Ikeja, Lagos State. Other officers he spoke with on phone said they
were still in shock over the accident. Those in the
fatal helicopter crash were Flight Lt. Jacob Perowei, who was the pilot in
command, Flight Lt. Kaltho  Kilyofas, the
co- pilot while Sgt Auwal Ibrahim was the Flight technician. Others were Lance
Corporal Adamu Nura and Aircraftman Meshak Ismael, gunners, respectively. Although the
officers spoke about their death under the condition of anonymity, some
insisted that government should conduct investigation to unravel what caused
the accident. One of the
NAF pilots disclosed that both Flight Lt. Jacob Perowei and Flight Lt. Kaltho
Kilyofas were among the best pilots in the world. He described both pilots as
very intelligent, experienced and dedicated to duty while he also described the
other three members of the crew as very hard working and obedient. Another top
officer at the base said, “We are not happy because we have lost some of
our great men. The Nigerian Air Force is not happy, likewise all the other
military forces. Their death will bring out the zeal in the military to deal
with Boko Haram and we are going to ensure that we eradicate insurgency in this
country. Yes, President Muhammadu Buhari has declared that the officers paid
the supreme price for the nation. They are our fallen heroes and we must not
let them down so that their deaths will not be in vain. A lance corporal
at the Air Force Base said Lance Corporal Adamu Nura was his course mate. He
said Nura was cool-headed but very intelligent. 
He said the Federal Government should be able to know the cause of the
accident. The NAF
Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola could
not be reached on phone after several calls were made to contact him. 