Experts have stressed the importance of early diagnosis of Scleroderma disease, also described as skin hardening, saying it could result in kidney and heart damage if not treated in good time.  Consequently, they have suggested that the sooner the disease is diagnosed, the sooner appropriate treatment should begin. Since scleroderma disease is progressive in nature, that is, it can get worse as time goes by, experts argue that symptoms can continue to increase in severity if the disease remains untreated. What is scleroderma?
A consultant rheumatologist, Dermatology Clinic, Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Lagos, Prof. Femi Adelowo, explains, “Scleroderma belongs to the group of diseases we call autoimmune diseases. This is when the body is at war with itself. Inside our blood, we have what is called the white blood cells. These white blood cells are the soldiers of the body and they have been programmed to protect the body against invaders like germs and infections. But for some reasons, some of these white cells ganged up together and do what I can call coup against the body and then begin to attack the body.  The attack now goes into all the structures of the
body.”
Adblowo observed that in scleroderma, the prominent attack was the one done on the skin, causing the skin to form scar tissue or fibrous and thickening.
According to him, besides the skin, scleroderma can also affect the blood vessels and vital organs of the body such as the lungs, heart and kidney.
“That is why early diagnosis is important to avoid damage of these organs,” he said.
Speaking on the topic, “Scleroderma Will Not Take My Smile,” at an event organised by the Dermatology Clinic, LUTH, Adblowo, suggested that since the disease had no cure for now, the best way to handle it was for those having strange development on their skin to seek specialist care through early diagnosis and proper treatment.
“The treatment is all about the management of the complications. We still do not have any drug that will cure it. In scleroderma, we talk about management because it has no cure,” he said. He, therefore, counselled, ”If you are noticing changes on your skin, report to a skin doctor- dermatologist. He knows the right blood test to be done. Anytime you notice anything on your skin, don’t just go about buying creams in the pharmacy, go and see a skin doctor for proper diagnosis and treatment. It usually affects women of child bearing age in their 20s and 40s. In Nigeria, it’s not too common, but from our record, out of 4,000 patients, we saw 29 cases of scleroderma.”
Also, a consultant dermatologist with the hospital, Dr. Otrofanowei Erere, urged people living with scleroderma to stop using local concoction to treat it and to also refrain from attributing the disease to spiritual attack.
Erere assured that the disease was neither caused by home trouble nor witches and wizards from the village as many had alleged.
Calling for increased awareness about the disease, Erere said, “The more we spread awareness about the disease, the more those affected will come out to seek help and push for a cure. When your skin is tightening, when your skin is hard, when you don’t understand what is happening to your skin, go and see a specialist.
“When you are not even sure of what the disease is, seek for a second opinion. Though scleroderma has no cure, we can control the disease to prevent complication and improve quality of life. You can smile even with scleroderma when early detection is done.”
On her part, Dr. Ayesha Akinkugbe, a Consultant Dermatologist, College of Medicine, University of Lagos, said scleroderma was a serious systemic condition that required family support.
Identifying irritable cough, skin colouration, skin tightening and difficulty in breathing as some of the symptoms of scleroderma, Akinkugbe pointed out that effective management of the condition required a partnership between the patients and health care
providers.
Some of the patients who narrated their ordeal to our correspondent said the ailment was strange to them while appealing for government’s support.
Olufumilayo Adebayo, against all odds, shared her worrisome experience with The Point, saying, “People avoid me a lot because they think I have leprosy. I sell recharge cards. And some people when they say they want to buy recharge cards, when they see the way I look; they will say they are not buying anymore. Even in the bus, people avoid me and would not want to sit beside me. Government should help us with the drugs.”
For Biola Segun-Williams, “Before I was diagnosed with scleroderma, I was a very hard working woman. But now, I can’t do much because the condition makes me tired, fatigued and emotionally troubled. A lot of things are now wrong with my skin that I now find it difficult to go out. Well, thank God I got support from family members, friends and my doctors. I have decided to move on with my life since it has no cure.” 