…20 houses, 30 shops razed .Olubadan summons family heads of affected areas as police arrest 11 suspects Arisekola Azeez, Ibadan At least 20 houses and 30 shops were razed by hoodlums who clashed in the early hours of Sunday in some areas of Ibadan metropolis, destroying property worth millions of naira. The incident had been traced to rivalries among various gangs at Idi-Arere, Sakapena, Oke-Ado, Kosodo, Oranyan, Asaka, and Ita Saku. The gangs, mainly youths, were said to have stormed the areas with dangerous weapons such as guns, cutlasses, axes and knives. They reportedly shot sporadically into the air to announce their arrival. Our correspondent gathered that the yet-to-be identified hoodlums had engaged in the violent attacks for the past few days in the affected areas. 
According to findings, the hoodlums who perpetrated the crisis, also looted many of the shops in the area. Investigations revealed that some of the young boys living within Idi-Arere and Sakapena area had a protracted disagreement with other boys from other locations in the city, which led to the attacks. One of the residents of the area, who preferred anonymity, told our correspondent that the hoodlums “burnt houses and shops too. So, it was very late, though it happened at midnight. It was when we woke up this morning that we saw everything. The attacks did not reach Popoyemoja; they stopped at Idi-Arere, from that junction to Bode Road.” “Though, I can’t count the number of shops, it was a stretch from that junction up to Hallelujah Petrol Station. But, we are talking of about 10 to 15 shops on this side and the same number on the other side.” The Police in Oyo State confirmed the incident, saying 11 suspects had been arrested and they would be charged to court at the end of the ongoing investigation into the incident. The PPRO said the state Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Odude, has directed the policemen drafted to the area to carry out intensive patrol as well as 24 hours surveillance to avoid further breakdown of law and order. “While directing that the 11 suspects including their ring leaders arrested be charged to court immediately after conclusion of investigation, the CP warned hoodlums and other criminal elements against wanton destruction of lives and property. Investigation to determine the cause and motive behind the incident is ongoing,” he said. Meanwhile, the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji,  has summoned an emergency meeting of all family heads in the areas concerned to his palace at Popoyemoja, Ibadan at noon on Monday. Personal Assistant/Director of Media and Public Affairs to Olubadan, Mr. Adeola Oloko, in a statement issued on Sunday, said the monarch was worried by persistent cases of arson and looting in some areas in Ibadan. According to the statement, the Mogajis (Compound Heads) and Baales (Village Heads) summoned to the meeting include those whose family compounds fall within Oja’gbo, Beyerunka, Labiran, Idi Arere/Asuni, Asaka, Isale Osi, Oopo Yeosa and Olorisa Oko areas of Ibadan. Oba Adetunji, who sympathised with the victims of arson and looting, noted that the security of lives and property was not only the responsibility of law enforcement agents but all and sundry. 