The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, on Friday advised Nigerians to vote whoever they wish to be their president in the February election. He said this while addressing State House Correspondents after leading South West monarchs on a visit to President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Ooni, while stressing that the visit was not political, explained that they were at the villa to point out the good works of the President. He said: “Election is so close by and obviously tension will build. What is critical is for us to know that Nigeria is greater than all of us. “They (politicians) will come and they will go but Nigeria will remain. We traditional rulers who are very fortunate to still be alive, we have experienced many presidents, many governors. “A president cannot use more than eight years, that is in the constitution of Nigeria, so Nigeria is greater than the president whose maximum tenure is eight years. “So, our message to everyone in Nigeria is that please, especially Nigerian youth, go and vote for whoever you want to vote for. “Mr. President even said it by himself, it is not a do or die. Whatever you want to use the power of your thumb for, go ahead and do it. “We are not here for politics. We are fathers to all, very close to our people, the only politics we understand is politics of development. We are here to talk about development for our people in all the states of south-western Nigeria. “We are here to point out the good things Mr. President has been doing especially the cordial relationship with the Vice-President who is from the south-western part of the country. “We are here to further request from Mr. President good things that we want for our various states. When you are doing good you will first of all appreciate the good things before asking for more. “What is critical for us here is to champion development for our people. We spoke about the inclusion of youth in the current government and also women inclusion. In terms of demography of votes pattern, we know that everything rest on the shoulders of Nigerian youths, we want to see them in this cabinet.” 