 …Banks will shrink further to 15 —analyst .job loss imminent—stakeholder .we don’t want such occurrence again—shareholder The acquisition talk between Diamond Bank and Access Bank Plc is already yielding expected results as both lenders are close to sealing a Merger and Acquisition deal that will eventually produce a strong entity in the financial landscape next year . Although, the picture as to what particular deals the banks are embarking upon, in terms of Merger and outright Acquisition, is still sketchy to many stakeholders, analysts and observers who commented on the planned fusion of the two lenders, said they would prefer to wait for a formal statement to be issued by the two financial institutions, confirming the development. They, however, believe that whatever name both entities agree to adopt does not matter to investors as long as their funds are safe. President, Bank Customers Association of Nigeria and former Registrar/ Chief Executive, Chartered Institute of Bankers, Dr. Uju Ogubunka, said whatever name it is called, the most important thing is that depositors do not lose money. The BCAN boss said the owners of the banks would have weighed the business deal, and factored in some strategies that could safeguard investor’s fund. “Whatever name they call it, whether Merger or total Acquisition does not matter to the depositors. All they want is to be assured that their money is safe in the banks. “The shareholders who are likely to be affected either positively or negatively would have to settle with the banks at the board level in order for them not to lose funds too. “Another Implication is that it will create a strong financial Institution in terms of branch network, bigger assets and large customer base. As we move on, there may likely be more mergers and acquisition among other banks. It is good, because it will enable the regulators to checkmate, monitor and cover supervisions and examinations in the institution,” he said. Findings revealed that Access Bank is attracted by Diamond Bank’s substantial low-cost deposits which, when added to its portfolio, would clearly put the Tier 1 lender in contention as the largest bank by assets in the industry. The Point had, in March, reported that Diamond Bank had shut down its offshore subsidiaries amid speculations of liquidity stress, but the lender’s CEO said the move was part of the Bank’s strategy to focus on Nigeria’s significant opportunities. He added that it was also in line with the bank’s decision to sell its international operations, which included the disposal of its West African subsidiaries in 2017. It will be recalled that global credit rating agency, Standard and Poor’s (S&P) had, a few weeks ago, lowered its long- and short-term issuer credit ratings on Diamond Bank P to ‘CCC+/C’ from ‘B-/B’ with a negative outlook, adding that the lender would post losses in the next 12-24 months. The rating action, according to the agency, reflects the consideration that Diamond Bank is currently dependent on favourable business, financial, and economic conditions to meet its financial obligations. Shareholder’s position Leader of the Pragmatic Shareholders Association, Mrs. Bisi Bakare, said shareholders should be happy that the banking watchdog-CBN and the Nigerian Insurance Corporation did not take over the bank. She said, it is commendable that the Board of Diamond Bank has taken a bold step by accepting Access Bank to acquire them, either through Acquisition or Merger because there is going to be transfer of shares. “For instance, if you have seven of Diamond Bank shares, they will give you two of Access Bank which is good, and that means shareholders would not lose totally. “We are really happy that we don’t have to lose totally, because we are yet to recover from the ones we lost in Skye Bank recently. If we lose Diamond Bank, it will be a total loss for 2018,” she said. Bakare explained that as an investor, “one would prefer to reap from anywhere you have invested money, but as it is now, investors are not happy with that.  But on the other hand, we  are happy that we don’t lose completely. So, it’s a welcome development, we just hope that such occurrence will not happen in our banking sector again.” Analysts’ position Commenting, Managing Director, Cowry Asset Management Company, Mr. Johnson Chukwu, said one of the implications is that the number of banks in Nigeria will reduce by one and the banking option available for performance will reduce too, but ultimately, if the merger attained synergy, then the merged institutions will grow to compensate for whatever they have done that the banking public would have lost. “The basic thing is that when there is a merger of two institutions, like the two banks, the auction available to the banking public reduces by one; there will be some job loss. So, in terms of the industry count, the banking industry willreduce, but the implication for the shareholders is that there would be an increase in their value. The shareholders of Diamond Bank will gain in the immediate, as a result of the merger deal. “As the industry shrinks, service option will also reduce. I don’t know what they are looking at but acquisition could actually be caused by circumstances or there are numbers of growth strategies. So, I think acquisition was arrived at under some circumstances,” he said. Managing Director Capital Bancorp, Mr. Higo Aigboje, said the implication is that Diamond Bank will disappear, it willbe consolidated into Access Bank and Access Bank will become a strong entity as a bigger bank in Nigeria, using several parameters like total assets, number of clients or customer deposit amongst others. “There was a time in Nigeria we have over a hundred banks, after consolidation, it was reduced to 25 banks, and further reduced to 21 banks now. We may see a situation where there will be further consolidation and the number of banks will shrink to about maybe 15 in the years ahead,” he said. “What happened now will perhaps trigger on more combinations, other banks in reaction to what Access Bank has done may decide to consolidate so that they can compete with Access Bank favourably.” Way forward Access Bank in a statement over the weekend said the Boards of Access Bank Plc and Diamond Bank Plc announced that they have received “No objection” from the CBN regarding a potential merger between the two entities, which is expected to be completed in the first half of 2019. “Transaction completion is subject to Access Bank and Diamond Bank obtaining shareholder and regulatory approvals (CBN and the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal High Court and the National Pension Commission (“PenCom”),” Access Bank said. Diamond Bank in a statement to the Nigerian Stock Exchange said its Board believes that the merger is in the best interest of all stakeholders, including employees, customers, depositors and shareholders, and has agreed to recommend the offer to Diamond Bank’s shareholders. “Completion of the merger is subject to certain shareholder and regulatory approvals. The proposed merger would involve Access Bank acquiring the entire issued share capital of Diamond Bank in exchange for a combination of cash and shares in Access Bank via a Scheme of Merger. “Based on the agreement reached by the boards of the two financial institutions, Diamond Bank’s shareholders willreceive a consideration of N3.13 per share, comprising of N1.00 per share in cash and the allotment of two new AccessBank ordinary shares for every seven Diamond Bank ordinary shares held as at the Implementation Date,” DiamondBank stated.Q  