A Nigerian man in the custody of the United States Immigration and Enforcement (ICE) at the Worcester County Jail in Snow Hill, Maryland, passed away Saturday morning at the facility. According to a statement published on the ICE website, Anthony Oluseye Akinyemi, 56, was pronounced dead at 5:23 a.m. local time December 21, 2019, after he was found unresponsive in his cell. All efforts by facility staff and emergency personnel to revive him were unsuccessful, the statement said. ICE said the preliminary cause of death appeared to be self-inflicted strangulation; but added that the case was currently under investigation. The report said, “Consistent with the agency’s protocols, the appropriate agencies have been notified about the death, including the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General, and the ICE Office of Professional Responsibility. Additionally, ICE has notified the Nigerian consulate and Mr. Akinyemi’s next of kin. “ICE is firmly committed to the health and welfare of all those in its custody and is undertaking a comprehensive agency-wide review of this incident, as it does in all such cases. Fatalities in ICE custody, statistically, are exceedingly rare and occur at a fraction of the national average for the US detained population. “This agency’s comprehensive review will be conducted by ICE senior leadership to include Enforcement and Removal Operations, the Office of Professional Responsibility and the Office of the Principal Legal Advisor.” The statement said Akinyemi had been in ICE custody less than 24 hours. “He entered ICE custody December 20, one day after he was convicted in Baltimore City Circuit Court for a sex offence and assault. ICE had previously lodged an immigration detainer against Mr. Akinyemi July 23, 2019, pursuant to his arrest for sexual abuse of a minor,” ICE said “Mr. Akinyemi entered the US lawfully on a non-immigrant visa in December 2017, but he failed to comply with the terms of his admission. At the time of his death, Mr. Akinyemi was in removal proceedings before the federal immigration courts,” it added. 