Unknown gunmen have killed a middle-aged operative of the Department of State Services simply identified as Mr. Samuel Ogali along Onwe Road in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital. Ogali, who is a native of Opaleka Village of Ezzama community, Ezza South Local Government Area of the state, was said to have been killed in the evening of Sunday, November 24, 2019. Our correspondent in Abakaliki gathered that the tragedy occurred as the DSS operative went out of his house at about 7pm on his new Carter motorcycle. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Loveth Odah, who confirmed the occurrence on the phone, said the wife of a prominent politician in the state residing at Onwe Road saw the dead officer’s lifeless body close to the gate to her house as she was going out for early morning jogging and informed her husband, who in turn alerted the police at kpirikpiri Division. The police spokesperson called on the public to make available any information that could assist the force in getting to the roots of the matter. Odah said: “The DPO of the area, that is B division, told me that a woman (names withheld) came out on Monday morning for early morning jogging and suddenly saw the officer’s lifeless body close to their gate and ran back. “Consequently, she reported to her husband who went to the Kpirikpiri Police Station and made report. The DPO immediately went to the scene and took the unconscious person to Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, where he was certified dead by the doctor on duty. “So, in search of his identity, the DPO said they searched his pocket and saw a mobile phone and an identity card showing that he’s a DSS officer. So, it’s now confirmed that he is DSS personnel. He has gunshot at his back and a deep cut also, which looked like that inflicted with an axe .So, we are strongly suspecting that it is cult-related activity. B Division has transferred the case to State Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and we have begun investigation.” She added: “We are using this opportunity to inform the public that anyone who has information that will aid in the investigation and possible arrest of the gunmen, should please not hesitate to do so. Remember, it is the constitutional duty of the public to assist the police to police well. So, for now, the command is on a manhunt for the perpetrators. “We are not aware of any, whether new or old motorcycle, he allegedly went out with that day before his death. Things we recovered from him are his mobile phone and DSS identity card,which are now registered with us.” 