 . ‘Team leader apologised to Justice Ojukwu’ Human rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), has refuted the Department of State Service’s claim that its operatives did not disrupt proceedings at the Federal High Court, Abuja, in their bid to rearrest the Publisher of Sahara Reporters, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, on Friday. Falana said in a statement, on Sunday, that, contrary to the DSS’ denial, issued the previous day, the leader of the DSS team that invaded the court tendered an apology for their conduct when summoned after the incident by the presiding judge, Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu. He argued that the DSS was unable to defend its conduct, hence the subsequent apology to the judge, who was forced to adjourn cases following the invasion. He noted that the DSS statement, issued by the agency’s spokesperson, was a “self-contradictory press release” and an unsuccessful attempt to absolve the DSS of responsibility “for the armed invasion of the Federal High Court, Abuja Judicial Division, in general, and the desecration of Court No 7 of Hon. Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu in particular, as well as the illegal rearrest of Omoyele Sowore”. He stated, “By the advantage of information technology, the whole world has placed responsibility for the gangsteric desecration of the court on the DSS. The DSS cannot extricate itself from the abominable acts of December 6, 2019. “When I informed the court that fresh charges were being filed against our clients and that they could be rearrested, the prosecution denied any such plan. As soon as the case was adjourned, the DSS pounced on Sowore and caused a disruption of the proceedings of the court. “Having taken over the court room, Justice Ojukwu hurriedly rose and asked the registrar to adjourn all other cases. “After the learned trial judge had risen for the day, she summoned the heads of the prosecution and defence teams to her chambers. “When the lead prosecutor, Dr. Liman Hassan (SAN), denied knowledge of the invasion of her court, she directed him to invite the head of the DSS team in the court. “When challenged to justify the invasion of the court, the officer could not. “He apologised to Justice Ojukwu on behalf of the DSS. “The judge then directed the officer to withdraw the DSS operatives from the court room. “The directive was complied with, as the operatives withdrew from the court room but rushed out to join their colleagues who had taken over the entire court house.” Falana further argued that the agency’s operatives’ “abominable desecration” of the court was covered live by domestic and international media and journalists, some of whom he said were victims of the operatives’ acts of “gangsterism, barbarism and brutalisation.” He called for the immediate release of his client, Sowore, and other political detainees as well as all criminal suspects that had been granted bail. 