Some indigenes of Jigawa State have kicked against plans by the state government to build 95 mosques across the state. According to the indigenes, Jigawa, which is one of the poorest states in the country, needs development rather than mosques. The state government had recently through the spokesperson of the Office of the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Ismail Ibrahim, announced that it would be building 90 Friday congregational and five daily prayer mosques across the 30 constituencies in Jigawa. The state government added that no fewer than 200 contractors were already bidding for contracts to build the mosques. But a prominent technocrat from the state, who pleaded anonymity, told The Point that Jigawa deserved to have industries rather than mosques, especially with the abundant resources in the state and the potential of its human resources. He argued that there were many projects in the state requiring adequate funding to properly function, adding that resuscitating and energising such projects should be the priority of the state government. The technocrat lashed out at the administration of Governor Badaru Abubakar and accused it of playing to the gallery by using the proposed mosque projects to appeal to the religious sentiments of the people of the state. He noted that Jigawa, whose indigenes he claimed today occupied the top echelon of the Nigerian Communications Commission because of its pioneering role in Information Communication Technology championed by the past administration of former governor Saminu Turaki, should have capitalised on this advantage to become Nigeria’s ICT hub and giant. He condemned the current attitude where state governors rely on the Federal Government to bear the cost of every development in their domains. He said, “Of recent, there have been quite ridiculous events happening in Jigawa and nobody is talking about it. It’s everywhere in the media that our governor is building 90 mosques. What do we do with 90 mosques? Honestly, we love Islam, but is that what we need? We’re the second poorest state in the country, after Zamfara. And we’ve been lucky not to have any Boko Haram incident, but you know even if that’s a plus to us, is this how to reward the people for their patience, for sustaining peace and stability? How do you build mosques for people requiring industries? “Dangote is building a rice-milling company. If he builds those things, how do we remove the products? We have a rail line there that is just lying fallow. There are some Chinese companies that want to generate power. These are all interests that are tied together. But what happens to the other sources of income and plantations that are so near to those places? Then, there is the airport. How do you have an airport that doesn’t function at all? And you know our export processing zone is granted by NASRDA. The export processing zone was set up so that manufacturers can come there and manufacture goods there for easy export to Niger, Burkina Fasso and Mali. That is why it’s right on the border. It was founded by Saminu Turaki. “Do you know that most the top echelon of NCC are from Jigawa? That’s because Turaki started the first ICT institution here. So, information technology started here to the extent that Jigawa owns 10 per cent of Galaxy backbone, which is a premier institute and we have an institute that produces students every year in Kazaure in respect of that. So, those are our strengths. So, what happens to those things? How do we improve them? Can’t we put more money to those things instead of these mosques? University of Agriculture, because we’re the ones that have the Hadejia-Jamare River Basin. So, those students, what happens to them? The vice president did this trader moni and it really helped. “Those are the positive aspects of things. But what about things that are not happening that are the responsibilities of the state? Do we have to wait for the Federal Government to pick the bill? No! The former deputy governor is now a senator and I know how he struggled to put things on the table that were never done.” Speaking in the same vein, another indigene of the state, Abbas Ibrahim, said what the state really needed were infrastructure that could bring development to it and its people in the nearest future. “We don’t need mosques from the government. We need schools, industries and other basic amenities,” he said. Yusuf Dandurawa backed Ibrahim’s view, saying, “Without knowledge, prayers are null and void.” Yunus Zamani in his view asked Governor Abubakar, “What kind of sentiment is this? Did they tell them the people don’t pray or they have no space to pray all this while? Where are the existing ones (mosques)?” Another indigene of the state, Lawal Abdullahi, however, accused the current administration in the state of embarking on the 95 mosque projects as a ploy to defraud the people of the resources of the state. “It’s a new system of looting people’s money. That’s just it,” he said. Efforts by our correspondent to speak with the officials of the state government proved abortive as they declined to comment on the matter. 