… Osinowo, Sunmonu make list The National Working Committee of the African Democratic Congress has approved the nomination of Dr. Gbolade Osinowo as a member of the Board of Trustees, representing Ogun State. According to a statement released by the party on Thursday, Osinowo will serve as the Secretary of the Board of Trustees, and his tenure commences with immediate effect. Dr. Osinowo is currently the Ogun State Chairman of ADC, and will continue to be Chairman in acting capacity to midwife the restructuring of our great party in Ogun State under a committed State Executive Council. “The statement, signed by the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mrs. Yemi Kolapo, said, “Dr. Osinowo is respected in the Nigerian political space for his brilliant approach to problem solving and the rare organizational skills that he is known for. He had served as Senior Special Adviser (Politics) to former President Olusegun Obasanjo, and Chief of Staff to late President Umaru Yar’Adua, anong others. “He was also Chairman of the Social Democratic Party when the late President MKO Abiola contested for President.” Other members of the Board of Trustees whose nominations were approved by the NWC are: Senator Monsurat Sunmonu (Oyo State); and Engr. Ayodele Ajayi (Ekiti State). Senator Sunmonu represented Oyo Central Senatorial District in the 8th Senate, and was Chair, Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs.
Before her foray into Nigerian politics, she had risen through the ranks to become a senior member of the British government. She left the United Kingdom in 2011 to contest for a seat in the Oyo State House of Assembly, and eventually became the first female Speaker of the state Assembly. Engr. Ayodele Ajayi was the National Democratic Party (NDP) governorship candidate in Ekiti State in 2003. In 2000, he worked tirelessly with others to form the Nigerian Democratic Leadership Forum (with membership drawn from all the continents of the world). He also played a leading role in the formation of the NIDO in Washington DC in 2001. His experience in starting, coordinating and managing a diaspora organisation will be an asset to ADC. 