Soldiers manning the entrance of the Collation Centre of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at Amuwo/Odofin Local Government Area of Lagos State  have barred journalists from entering the centre to observe and report the official declaration of result for the Amuwo/Odofin Federal House of Representatives Constituency election. Our correspondent alongside journalists from other media organisations were about moving into the Collation centre when the soldiers manning the entrance gate insisted journalists are not needed inside the Centre. “When journalists are needed,  you will be called upon. But for now, we have not been told that your attendance is needed here.  The result is about to be announced and journalists have not been asked to come here, ” one of the soldiers who appeared be the leader of the security operatives said. All explanations by the journalists and  the tendering of identifications as well as INEC accreditation lapels were ignored by the soldiers. Meanwhile the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the Amuwo/Odofin House of Representatives Federal Constituency, Oghene Eghor has raised alarm that certain forces within the State have perfected strategies with officials of INEC to change the result of the election to favour another candidate. Egor is the current legislator representing Amuwo/Odofin at the Federal House of Representatives in Abuja. According to the legislator, results collated so far by PDP agents across the polling units within the Federal Constituency showed that he is a enjoying comfortable lead. “As I am talking to you. I have received information that certain forces in the State are trying hard to subvert the will of my people who have received elected me. From all of the results so far collated and which were duly signed by INEC and  all parties’ agents across the polling units, it was obvious but I have won this race. “But I am using this opportunity to  appeal to all lovers of democracy, the international observers and  all men of goodwill to prevail on INEC not to toy with the authentic result coming from the polling booths. We are appealing that the right thing be done for us.  We didn’t rig and  we don’t want to be rigged out,” Eghor said. 