National Vice-Chairman, South-West of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Eddy Olafeso, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari-led government has failed on all fronts urging Nigerians to vote him in Saturday’s presidential election.He particularly chastised the administration for its failure in the much pronounced anti corruption war. Olafeso made this  known while speaking at a one-day colloquium tagged: “Atiku: The Paradigm Shift,” which took place in Lagos and was attended by former National Secretary of the PDP, and now, member of party’s BoT, Dr. Aderemi Akitoye; South-West Coordinator, Atiku/Obi Presidential Support Group, Yeye Agnes Shobajo and a PDP chieftain, Prince Uthman Shodipe-Dosumu, among others.The PDP chieftain, while saying that the promises made by Buhari’s government in three areas, including economy,  war against corruption and fight against Boko Haram insurgency had remained unfulfilled, describved the fight against corruption by the administration as a hoax as every corrupt Nigerian in PDP had already moved to the ruling APC.“Every corrupt Nigerian in PDP has already moved to APC and their chairman, Adams Oshiomhole said it is a sanctuary for them, that as soon as they join the party, they are free and they are faultless. We have seen that they have failed the Nigerian people, they did not keep their promises and the nation has moved away from them,” Olafeso said.Speaking on the theme of the colloquium, the party chieftain said the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar represented the paradigm shift and a new beginning for the restructuring of the country for Nigerians people to participate in governance.“Atiku Abubakar represents a new beginning for the restructuring of our nation and for our people to participate in governance to ensure that power flows from the people and the government can only take decision that is of interest to the greater majority of our people and that is a paradigm shift,” Olafeso said, even as he declared that his optimism that his party, PDP would definitely win all the coming polls was now running high based on the fact that all Nigerians were now resolved to vote APC out of office based on its lackluster performance. Also speaking, former PDP national scribe and now a BoT member,  Dr. Akitoye, enjoined  Nigerians not to entertain fear about the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) being impartial in the forthcoming elections, even as he predicted victory for the PDP.He further enjoined Nigerians to all go out and vote their conscience and ensure that their votes counted, while reminding them to compare their present status with what it was in 2015 as they go out to perform their civic duty. “We should vote according to our conscience and according to our experience. If this era is better than the past, that is an experience. Vote according to your conscience. We should all mobilize to ensure that our votes count,” he said.  Convener of the colloquium, Prince Uthman Shodipe-Dosumu, in his own address, said the colloquium was to proffer possible alternatives to the present Nigerian reality. In her own contribution, another PDP chieftain, Yeye Shobajo noted that the PDP had worked very hard to win the Saturday’s election, saying that the party’s presidential candidate, Alhaji Abubakar had the requisite experience in business and politics, besides being a man with large heart,  an open-minded person, an educationist, among others, to take Nigeria out of the woods. 