Senator Oluremi Tinubu has commended the peopleof Lagos Central Senatorial District for electing her to represent the district in the National Assembly for the next four years. She said she was ready and willing to put in the work necessary to get Lagos central and Nigeria moving forward. Senator Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress polled 131, 725 votes to defeat het closest rival, Adesunbo Onitiri, of the Peoples Democratic Party who polled 89, 107 votes In a statement released on Monday in Lagos and personally signed by her, Senator Tinubu said she was humbled by the support and confidence reposed in the perspective she brought to bear on to the Senate. The statement reads: “In an overwhelming show of patriotism and loyalty to Nigeria, the people have through their votes, exercised their power to elect leaders and determine the course of our Nation for the next four (4) years. Nigerians have let it be known that we are willing to put in the work necessary to get Nigeria moving forward. “The good people of Lagos Central Senatorial District have once again elected me to represent them at the Upper Legislative Chamber. I am humbled by the support and confidence reposed in the perspective I bring to the Nigerian Senate. I am honoured to represent Lagos Central for another 4 years and I remain dedicated to ensuring that our youth are sufficiently empowered, that social security is a priority, and that the Nigeria of our dreams is realised. “Thus, I want to extend my gratitude to my family, members of the Appreciation 2019 Campaign team, and volunteers who have served, knocking on doors, going from market to market, shaking hands and mobilizing the electorate to exercise their civic rights. It is time to get to work, consolidating on the foundations we have put in place. It is time to address the critical issues of infrastructure development, accessibility and affordability of education, and increased employment among others. “The victory of the APC in today’s elections is a victory for our democracy and the protection of our commonwealth. Thus, I urge the electorate to come out en masse again on Saturday 9th March, 2019 for the Gubernatorial and State Houses of Assembly Elections. I would also like to commend the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on ensuring that the elections were well organised, free and fair; and our security agencies for keeping the peace.” 