…You’re frustrated, APC tells NRM Governorship Candidate …Senator’s claims baseless – Police Commissioner Maiharaji Altine,  Gusau The Gubernatorial candidate of National Rescue Movement , Senator Saidu Muhammad  Dansadau, has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission to immediately cancel the Presidential and National Assembly elections conducted last Saturday. Speaking to newsmen in Gusau on Sunday, Senator Dansadau said the election was characterised by massive riggings, ballot box snatching as well as all sorts of election malpractices. According to him, the election was hijacked by the ruling All Progressives Congress in the state where security agents were used to harass voters, particularly in the rural areas, where there was insecurity problems. Senator Dansadau therefore urged the INEC chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, to use the power vested in him by the Constitution to annul the election conducted in Zamfara so as to restore the confidence of the people of the State in INEC. He described the just-concluded election as the worst that had ever taken place in the history of election in the whole country, calling on INEC to do something immediately by cancelling the results and announce a new date for its repeat. He therefore swore that, if Zamfara State election was not cancelled, he would have no option than to withdraw from the contest as governorship candidate of the NRM. “I would to inform the  INEC that if the election is not cancelled in Zamfara State, I will not contest as governorship candidate next week, ” he said. Senator Dansadau specifically accused Governor Abdul Aziz Yari of using both money and position to win elections, stressing that, “the Governor has been violating the laws of the land,” lamenting that the President who is preaching justice is not doing anything to stop Governor Yari from this violation of the law”. Reacting to Senator Dansadau’s accusations, the APC Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Shehu Isa Gusau, said there was no iota of truth in the allegations, adding that, ” the Senator was speaking out of frustration.” The APC publicity secretary stated that Senator Dansadau was blaming the election process simply because he knew that his party would not win the election and that was why he was trying to fault  the election. He described the last election conducted in Zamfara State as the freest as well as credible as, according to him, no voter was denied the right to elect candidates of his choice. He advised Dansadau to respect both his age and position, saying t “I have respect for him as an elderly person”. Also reacting to the issue in a telephone conversation with The Point, the State Police Commissioner, Celestine Okoye,  said the senator’s claim was baseless, adding “no voter was intimidated.” The Commissioner maintained that enough security was given to all polling units in the state while voters were provided with peaceful atmosphere to exercise their civic responsibilities. He wondered where the Senator got his Information as he was not in the places he mentioned. 