The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ogun State, Buruji Kasamu, has promised to invest in ‘stomach infrastructure’ if elected as the governor of the state in order to save the people of the state from poverty. Kashamu disclosed this when he visited the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo,in his palace, saying although the current government of Senator Ibikunle Amosun had performed well in the last seven and half years, it had failed to do ‘stomach infrastructure’ for the people. The governorship candidate, who said he would do wonders and perform better than previous administrations if elected as the governor, insisted that ‘stomach infrastructure’ was the paramount thing needed by the people to save them from poverty. Kashamu, while explaining how the people of the state could benefit from the stomach infrastructure,  said he would use micro finance and community banks as well as empower 400 to 500 businessmen and women from each of the local government councils with huge amount from of money  to invest more in their councils. He said,” If you permit me to be the governor, I will do wonders in Ogun State. I am not saying that the present administration have not done well, the one before the current government had done its best too, but the current administration failed to do the stomach infrastructure, but if I become the governor, I will do stomach infrastructure.” On the way to implement the stomach infrastructure, Kashamu said, “ If we have micro finance bank and community bank, if we raise 400 to 500 people in every local government that are business people that will have N4m, N5m, N10m to put in their businesses, they will continue to invest in the local government.” The PDP gubernatorial candidate also promised to allow local governments have access to their application and other funds from the federal government in order to manage their council areas, lamenting that the local councils were suffering from paucity of funds. ” My own government will be the last government  to sit on local government money. I will write letters of undertaking to Kabiyesi within one week that the problem we are having is that we don’t allow local government money to be managed by them. I will allow the money to flow into the local government,” he said. In his remarks, Oba Gbadebo  showered blessings on Kashamu and prayed that he will be successful in his ambition to be the next governor of the state. 