The senator representing Kogi West senatorial district, Senator Dino Melaye,  has said that  most indigenes of Kogi state are currently living as ulcer patients due to hunger inherited from the ongoing administration in the state led by Governor Yahaya Bello. The senator stated this at Koto-Karfi area in the state, saying the ongoing All Progressives Congress administration in the state has buried several people in abject poverty. “Kogi State today has the highest number of ulcer patients in the Federal Republic of Nigeria due to hunger. Salaries have not been paid, pensioners have not been paid, and the level of insecurity in the state is second to none. The people are completely disenchanted, they are disillusioned, they are not happy and the only solution is to have PDP back in power to come and correct the mess that has been created by this government,” Melaye maintained. Melaye, who also boasted that PDP will have an easy sail in the forthcoming general election, at the state and federal levels said his past efforts representing his district will pave way for him to serve them the second term under the PDP umbrella. “I have attracted 149 projects to the district from 2015 till date. Therefore, I am urging my people to trust me with this mandate once again so that I can do more,” he said. The senator thanked the people of Kogi West for standing by him throughout his ordeal. He hailed the leadership of PDP for the massive campaign for him and other party candidates across the senatorial district in his absence. Meanwhile, Melaye has expressed confidence that the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, will emerge victorious on February 16. “The reception has been very wonderful. The enthusiasm of the voters is encouraged. We can say on good authority that light shall overcome darkness. “We are very sure, by the grace of God, Atiku will not only win this local government, but from what we are seeing on ground, he win with a very wide margin. “We have been assured by the people that the Senatorial, House of Representatives and House of Assembly elections is also a concluded issue in this local government because of the pervasive hunger in the land,” he said. 