 More trouble appears to be on the way for embattled Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, as two youths were allegedly shot dead at the Agwa Junction in Ejemekwuru, Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State, at the weekend.   The incident, which happened during Okorocha's senatorial rally, is already pitching the governor and the Peoples Democratic Party’s Governorship candidate, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, against each other, throwing them in a war of 
words.   The governor, in a statement on Sunday, signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, accused one of the victims as a cult member, warning the Imo State governorship standard-bearer of the PDP, Ihedioha, to desist from accusing the governor at the slightest opportunity.   The statement advised the trio of Ihedioha, the Accord Party governorship candidate, Chief Ikedi Ohakim, and his All Progressives Congress counterpart, Senator Hope Uzodinma, to withdraw from their race instead of always accusing him falsely, warning that his silence should not be taken for weakness.   But the state Police Command's Public Relations Officer, Orlando Ikeokwu, has confirmed the incident. He said he would not give further information on the matter as investigation was still going on, stressing that from preliminary reports, 
he heard that soldiers allegedly killed the young man and not police operatives attached to the governor.   He noted that only police men and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence  officials were assigned to guard the governor and not soldiers.   Ikeokwu said, “I heard it last night. It happened at Ejemekwuru. We don't know how it happened. We have started investigating. We don't know whose fault it was. We heard it was a soldier that shot him. We are not too sure yet. The governor does not have soldiers attached to him. We are still investigating. Until I get to the office tomorrow. I will give you details. You can quote me that it happened.”   The statement, signed by Ihedioha's campaign spokesman, Kissginger Ikeokwu, a lawyer, however, said, "The Ihedioha Campaign Organisation condemns in the strongest terms, violence that trailed the APC Senatorial rally of Rochas Okorocha at Ejemekwuru in Oguta Local Government, which led to the gruesome killing of two indigenes of Agwa in Oguta Local Government Area. The killing of two young Imo sons is totally unacceptable and a worrisome development.   "Reports have it that soldiers attached to the out-going governor of Imo State, His Excellency, Governor Rochas Okorocha, opened fire on unarmed citizens leading to avoidable loss of lives. The callous killings, according to report, was carried out by soldiers accompanying the governor, who were alleged to be acting on his 
instruction.”   But  Okorocha, through his Chief Press Secretary, Onwuemeodo, expressed strong annoyance over the accusations, warning his accusers and the candidates, who had accused him of borrowing, ranging from N200 billion 
to N400 billion, despite his explanations that under his watch, the state was not owing any bank a 
dime.   He explained, "It has become increasingly necessary to ask or advise some governorship candidates in the state, especially Emeka Ihedioha, Hope Uzodinma, Ifeanyi Araraume and 
Ikedi Ohakim, who have seen defeat staring in their faces to honourably withdraw from the gubernatorial race instead of resorting to cheap blackmail and petty lies against governor Rochas 
Okorocha.   "We have read the press release by the campaign outfit of Chief Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP concerning the reported death of a young man in Oguta said to have been killed in cult related clash. And you begin to wonder what connection the death of the young man had with the rally of the APC Senatorial candidate for Orlu Zone, Governor Okorocha, in Oguta at the 
weekend.”  