…Tokoya remains our Governorship candidate – Party scribe insists The crisis rocking the Accord Party in Ogun State took another dimension on Thursday when six members of the State Working Committee kicked against the endorsement of the gubernatorial candidate of the African Democratic Congress, Prince Gboyega Nasiru  Isiaka,  as their flagbearer for the March 9 governorship election. Recalled the the State Chairman and some members of the party had adopted Isiaka as their gubernatorial candidate for the governorship election, accusing their own candidate, Sir, Tope Tokoya, of  being inactive and lacking funds to pursue his political ambition. But speaking at a media briefing held at the Nigeria Union of Journalists Secretariat in Abeokuta, the state capital, the State Publicity Secretary of Accord Party, Asoju Oba Micheal Adesanya, denied the party’s endorsement of Isiaka as their gubernatorial candidate. Adesanya, who accused the Chairman of the party, Elder Isiaka Amusa and other five members of engaging in anti party activities to have endorsed the ADC gubernatorial candidate, insisted that Tokoya remained the rightful governorship candidate of the party. According to the Accord Party’s State Publicity Secretary, Elder Amusa and his five-man members had turned the party into political prostitution where its leadership adopts candidates of different political parties as their flag bearer in the forthcoming governorship election. Adesanya, while cautioning  Amusa not to destroy the party because his preferred candidates did not win the party’s primaries, warned the party’s chairman and his five-man group to desist from hawking the gubernatorial candidacy of its party to renowned political figures in the state. He disclosed that the governorship candidates of  the Social Democratic Party , Otuba Rotimi Paseda;  the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Buruji Kashamu;  the All Progressives Congress, Dapo Abiodun; and the Allied People’s Movement, Adekunle Akinlade  were met by Amusa  and his group before they endorsed Isiaka as the party’s gubernatorial candidate. He said “… there was no resolution at any State Working Committee or Executive meeting to embark on any anti party activities of working for gubernatorial candidates from other political parties. Accord, Ogun State has not endorsed GNI (Isiaka) or any other gubernatorial candidate from other political parties. Pastor( Sir)  Tope Tokoya remains our flagbearer in Accord. “We are in possession of various documents that confirms the anti party activities of a five-man group led by the State chairman of the party, Elder Isiaka Amusa, whose imaginary candidate lost out in the party primaries of our great party. One must not destroy his political party because he lost in political party primary he organised? “This group has continued to hawk the gubernatorial candidacy of our party to all the known political figures in Ogun State. They have met Akinlade /SIA, Lado, Paseda,  Buruji,  Dapo and they have continued to fail. Their newest victim is GNI (Isiaka)…” 