Omoyele Sowore is one of the candidates in Saturday’s Presidential election. The publisher of Sahara Reporters, who is contesting on the platform of the African Action Congress, said he would turn Nigeria into a construction site after winning the election. He also expressed his desire to ameliorate the sufferings of the average Nigerian. My Pledge Nigeria’s current unemployment numbers are staggering. When university graduates cannot even find jobs as security guards, what hope is there for those who do not have a formal education? From day one,  I will turn Nigeria into a construction site, using fiscal responsibility and public-private partnerships to finance infrastructure projects. How are we going to do this? Nigeria’s roads, bridges, railways, seaports, sewage plants, drinking water plants, inland waterways and other critical infrastructure are sorely inadequate. For the last four decades, we have been in maintenance mode – patching up what was constructed in the 1960s and 1970s. One major issue is that Nigeria’s unimaginative governments claim we have no money. Well, let’s get rid of corruption first and use the funds we have to build infrastructure and next, we will use private-public partnerships  to supplement any shortfall. I have to say that with proper accounting of our revenue, we might just have enough to make Nigeria work for Nigerians. My Plan I have a clear plan and my policy team is now in the process, tweaking detailed implementation plans for every sector of the Nigerian economy that we will soon  share with Nigerians. Unlike President Muhammadu Buhari, who did not elect a cabinet until after six months of taking office, I have started bringing together a shadow cabinet of experts that are 
understudying what is going on right now in each sector of the Nigerian nation so that when we are voted in by the Nigerian people, we can truly hit the ground running from day one. Nigeria is truly blessed with a solid professional class at home and abroad. We can’t 
wait to unleash them on a Nigeria that we know is destined for prosperity and prominence. 