 The African Democratic Congress on Monday raised the alarm over what it alleged as a plot by the All Progressives Congress and the Independent National Electoral Commission to release fake election results for Yewa North/Imeko Afon Federal Constituency of Ogun State. The party therefore called for the immediate arrest of the Electoral Officer in charge of Yewa North/Imeko Afon Federal Constituency and some chieftains of the APC in the area over the alleged plan to release fake House of Representatives election results. The party, in a statement signed by the State Publicity Secretary, Abiola Odutola,  alleged that the plot was the fallout of a meeting between INEC and APC on Sunday evening after they found that the candidate of ADC in the constituency, Hon. Jimoh Aremu Olaifa, popularly known as OJA, won the election with a great margin. ADC said the ruling APC had become devastated by the authentic results filtering out of polling units across the federal constituency. “Our sources within APC and INEC have informed us that INEC and APC refused to announce the House of Representatives election results after they have declared the results of the Presidential and Senatorial elections, which was won by the ruling party, because they wanted to alter the figures. “If INEC fails to declare the results in two hours, we will hold the electoral commission and APC responsible and they should expect a protest. Their ultimate aim is to create confusion in the constituency and indirectly divert the attention of our party members and the electorate,” the statement said. The party said both INEC and APC should be reminded  that anyone who flouts the law on announcement of official results would be made to face the consequences, stating that membership of the ruling political party should not be a license  to flout the law. “The ruling party should not celebrate yet on the already declared result as we have heard reports of how some hoodlums disrupted the electoral processes in several areas that APC claimed to have won. “We also have reports and evidence of how some Allied Peoples’ Movement and APC leaders engaged in vote trading across the three senatorial districts in the state, a development that contradicts the electoral law of the nation,” ADC said. ADC had raised an alarm on how INEC was frustrating the electoral process in the state. “There are also lapses on the part of INEC as the electoral process did not start in Sokori area in Abeokuta, Edu poling unit, Ketu Adie Owo, Ado Ota LGA till 1pm due to absence of electoral materials like ballot papers and stamp pads among others,”  the party had said on Saturday. The state secretary also added that some members of the state’s National Union of Road Transport Workers  had alerted the party on the alleged plan of the ruling party to use some hoodlums to intimidate and harass the electorate and supporters of ADC’s Ogun Central Senatorial candidate, Rt. Hon. Titi Oseni-Gomez. “We can also confirm that some youth, who dressed like members of the National Youth Service Corps, were paid and deployed to certain poling units to work with some INEC officials to ask the electorate to vote APC and alter electoral figures,” ADC alleged. 