A Special Governor’s Advisory Committee meeting was held on Sunday in Marina, Lagos to resolve the conflict between Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode and Lagos State House of Assembly which led to the impeachment threat on the governor. Present at the meeting were the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Lagos central Senatorial Leader, Prince Tajudeen Olusi; Governor  Ambode; his deputy, Dr. (Mrs) Idiat Adebule; House of Assembly Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa; his Deputy, Hon. Wasiu Esinlokun, among others. Confirming the resolution of the crisis, Asiwaju Tinubu, said, “We held a meeting on behalf of entire Lagosians. In the last one week or so, there has been some talk about a conflict between the Executive and the Legislature in Lagos. “This is of great concern to us. We looked at the source of the conflict, which is normal in a democracy, and that is why there are also conflict-resolution mechanisms. We examined the grievances on both sides. “As leaders, we also looked into areas where there has to be compromise. In order to build institutions and encourage consensus-building, we have to do what is right. “There is no impeachment. Let there be more communication and consensus-building and understanding. All these are inbuilt in the democratic system. “We thank the Speaker and the leadership of the House. We thank the Governor and the Deputy Governor. They have all demonstrated respect for the party leadership in Lagos. You know when Lagos sneezes, other areas catch cold. We are happy that we are able to resolve the conflict and things will start moving well going forward.” Another leader in Lagos APC,Prince Tajudeen Olusi,also confirmed the resolution of the crisis. “The APC leader has spoken. This is just to further confirm the decisions that we reached. Conflict is an institutional part of the governance. the Executive/Legislature must work together. We have reached a decision that they must work together amicably. And very soon, both the Legislature and the Executive must resolve the grey areas in their relationship,” 
he said. 