The Winifred Awosika Foundation, a non-governmental organization, has concluded its 6th annual schools’ challenge aimed at promoting academic excellence. The 2019 edition of the annual schools’ challenge tagged, ‘Promoting academic excellence’ held at Chrisland pre-degree College in Lagos. According to the organiser, the competition being held in the South West zone, is expected to go national in order to engage learners from leading schools across the nation. The founder, Chrisland Schools and Winifred Awosika Foundation, Dr Winifred Awosika, who addressed the participating schools on the occasion, advised the students to work hard to succeed as future leaders. Dr Awosika said hard work with decency guarantee success in life as growing leaders. She explained that the annual programme was meant to prepare students for greater tasks preparatory to future challenges. Disclosing that the best schools were selected deliberately to make the competition a real challenge, the founder said, “Those who strive to do good in life will always survive and excel. “Those who may want to manipulate success without hardwork may find themselves lost on the road. We should always pull these ones down by our own power of decency and hardwork. “This exercise is to help our leaders of today and tomorrow. I want you, as leaders, to keep the flag flying in your various schools. Be honest and sincere in what you do. Do not be caught in any form of malpractices because you have very high responsibilities. “We started in a very humble way and this year, we have 17 schools participating. We selected schools with good policies, good education and decency. The schools represent here are lucky to be counted among the best for this challenge; we wish you the best in life. “Many schools have been coming from afar for this competition; some from Ibadan and some from Abeokuta. As time goes on, we will make it more elaborate and national for the purpose of everyone.” The Chairman, orgainising committee, Mr. O.A. Oladipupo, said, “We want to help the children to fulfill their academic desires and encourage them in the way that they will be more determined to do more. Next year, we would want to expand the coast beyond the South-West.” The event which featured academic presentations, written tests, quiz, entertainment and sports quiz, involved 16 schools with four Chrisland schools in the first category and 12 invited schools from the South-West in the second 
category. The participating schools are White Sand School; Dansol High School; Supreme Educational Foundation; The Bells Secondary School; Atlantic Hall; Lagoon Secondary School; Chrisland School, VGC and Faith 
Academy. Others are Chrisland School, Ikeja; Chrisland School, Idinmu; Queens College, Yaba; Igbobi College Yaba; White Dove School; Fountain Heights; Honeyland School and Comprehensive Academy, Abeokuta. In the first group, Chrisland College, Idimu came first with 55 points; Chrisland College VGC came second with 50 points while Chrisland College, Ikeja came third with 35 
points. In the second group, Lagoon School came first with 55 points among the 12 invited schools. Dansol High School came second with 50 points while Supreme Educational Foundation came third with 45 points. 