Following its strict adherence to environmental policies and regulations, Nigeria’s foremost indigenous pharmaceutical company ,  Fidson Healthcare Plc,  has bagged the International Organisation for Standardisation, ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System Certification. The ISO  14001:2015  certification  is the world’s most widely recognized standard for Environmental Management System which minimizes the impact of the company’s operations, activities, products and services on the environment. EMS is intended for utilization by organizations seeking to manage their environmental responsibilities in a systematic manner that contributes to the environmental pillar of sustainability while maintaining an eco-friendly environment. Presenting the certification at Fidson’s corporate head office in Lagos recently , Chief Executive Officer & Managing Partner , 4 Quarters Consultancy Limited -a support firm on EMS Certification, Samuel Sawah, stated that  Fidson received the  certification after meeting all specified requirements that must be deployed in enhancing environmental performance. Sawah said ISO 14001:2015 ensures an organization achieves the intended outcomes of its environmental management system, which provides value for the environment, the organization itself and other interested parties in consistency with the organization’s environmental policy. According to him, these management systems include the enhancement of environmental performance, fulfillment of compliance obligations and achievement of environmental objectives. In his  remarks, Managing Director, Fidson Healthcare Plc, Dr Fidelis Ayebae, who expressed delight over the certification,  commended the body for the recognition,  assuring   that the company was wholly committed  to maintaining the EMS standards. According to him, Fidson was  not only going to  enhance its environmental performance and manage legal compliance to environmental responsibilities, but  would also  be setting  a pace for other manufacturing companies to follow  by demonstrating its commitment to humanity and environmental preservation. He said : “In a society where organizations and even the citizens pays less attention to the impact of their operations and activities to the environment, we at Fidson choose to set the pace for others to follow because as an indigenous manufacturer of pharmaceutical products, we say that ‘We Value Life’ and this implies that we must truly show that we value life by strictly adhering to environmental policies and regulations.” The Fidson boss added, “The EMS certification, which is one of the many feats achieved by the company in recent times, is another demonstration of the company’s commitment to positively impacting humanity as parts of its Corporate Social Responsibility  initiative, focused on Children’s education, health and environment, and in alignment with its corporate slogan…we value life.” 