…She’s too troublesome, husband claims A housewife, Serifat Obayomi, has told a Customary Court sitting in Ake, Abeokuta, Ogun State, that her husband, Haruna Obayomi, is problematic and has not given her peace of mind in their marriage of 16 years. Serifat, in a suit numbered: ‘373/2018’, said Haruna was fond of fighting her, adding that she was forced to pack out of her matrimonial home in August, 2018. She pointed out that her husband was in the habit of neglecting his role in the home, explaining that he failed to take care of her and the children. Despite reporting him to his family, she said that he did not change his ways. The mother of three told the court that she was seeking a divorce on the grounds of incessant provocation, frequent fighting and lack of care for her and their children. Serifat urged the court to grant her the custody of their three children for proper motherly care. She prayed the court to dissolve her marriage and order her husband to stop coming to her house or place of work to foment trouble. The woman also wants the court to mandate the man to provide for the upkeep of their children. Serifat said, “My husband is fond of fighting with me every time and since I got married to him, I have never had peace of mind. He doesn’t take care of me and the children. “I want this honourable court to dissolve our marriage on the grounds of provocation, no rest of mind, lack of care for the children, frequent fighting and threat to my life. I want an order of the court to restrain him from further coming to my house or place of work to cause trouble and I want the court to order him to be paying for the maintenance of the children.” In his defence, her husband denied all the allegations levelled against him, claiming that she was troublesome. Haruna said he did not know why she packed out of the house in August, 2018, without his
 consent. “My wife is too troublesome, I don’t know what came over her that she packed out of our matrimonial home without my knowledge, she is the cause of the trouble in our home,” he said. The President of the court, Mrs. O.O Sam-Obaleye, adjourned the case for further hearing. 