 Apassenger, Ebunoluwa David, said she narrowly escaped death, recently, when she unluckily boarded a 'one-chance' bus in Lagos.   David said she boarded the ‘danfo’ bus carrying passengers to Oshodi/ CMS with six men, including the driver and a lady on board.   She said, "I wanted to sit in front but the man in front said there was no chance, so I sat at the back. On getting to Idi Oparun bus stop, after abattoir, they moved into action. I and the other lady were asked to lie down. They collected my bag, ransacked it and brought out my wallet, where my ATM cards were kept.   "I was asked to disclose my pin number, but being in a state of confusion, I gave them the wrong pin. One of them had alighted from the bus and taken my cards to the ATM point. All along, the bus was in motion. They didn't stop at any point. When the guy at the ATM point called to say that I gave a wrong PIN number, I was beaten by his gang.”   She said her clothes were torn and her pants were about to be removed by two others in suit. She explained, “Their aim was to put 'aboniki' balm in my private parts, but because I already soiled my trousers with urine, while I was being attacked, they stopped. I was beaten again to make me unlock my phone. My head was hit against the bus. I was begging them but they didn't listen. While raising my face to beg the man that was beating me, he tried putting his fingers in my eyes and punched my nose. They succeeded in putting 'aboniki' in my eyes, gave me my bag and pushed me out of the bus while on motion. They collected a Samsung S7 Edge, one Blackberry passport, one Prime U box phone, ATM cards (First Bank and GTBank) and N13, 000 cash from me.   “They withdrew the sum of N200, 000 from my First Bank account, N100, 000 from my GTBank account and transferred the sum of N150, 000 from my account to another account. The other lady took me back to my estate gate. She was going to Yaba College of Technology, Yaba, to pay her school fees, so she wasn't really beaten as her cards were not with her.”   The victim further narrated that she went to the hospital, did x-ray and got treated.   “Thereafter, we went to Abbatoir Police Station to report the incident and got a police report. On getting there, we met one Sergeant Andrew, who directed us to the police reception. A female police got my statement and referred me to Sergeant Andrew again, saying that he was in charge of my case,” she noted.   “I was being tossed about at the station with my swollen face. When my family noticed nothing good would come out of it, we had to leave the police station,” she added.  