The 2015 presidential election will remain in the minds of Nigerians as one of the most keenly contested elections in the history of Nigeria’s democracy. The strong campaigns (street, print and electronic media) from the camps of the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressives Congress cannot be forgotten in a hurry. The APC, which was the major opposition party at the time, seemed to have an upper hand in terms of intensity of campaign and consistency of message. They sold their ‘Change’ slogan so well that it sat well in the hearts of a greater percentage of the electorate, who, rightly or mistakengly, began to see the former President Goodluck Jonathan government as one that must be sent packing if Nigeria must continue to exist. They addressed issues, but the PDP, unfortunately could not match their wits despite ample evidence of work done across critical sectors of the Nigerian economy. Many Nigerians also appeared not to be interested in the good sides of the Jonathan government.  That, however, was the cross a once supported government, which suddenly became unpopular, owing to avoidable goofs here and there, would usually suffer in the hands of angry masses, who, helped by calculated propaganda, had linked the country’s woes to “16 years of PDP rule.” However, as heated as the polity was at that time, one kudos that must go to the former President was his determination to prosecute a free and fair election, even if it would cost him his seat as President. Though some observers said there were subtle acts of desperation, like the initial postponement of the presidential election to create more time for the PDP to close the unfavourable wide acceptance gap that had become so glaring six weeks to the D-Day, others saw beneath the surface. Today, many more commentators have, interestingly, noted that the seeming dictatorial posture of the Buhari government has made a saint of the once criticised Jonathan government. This can be captured in the usual response to the likelihood of PDP winning the 2019 presidential elections: “Buhari is not Jonathan.” Yes, we know that President Muhammadu Buhari and Jonathan are from different parts of Nigeria; we know that Buhari is a Muslim, while Jonathan is a Christian; we also know that Jonathan, unlike Buhari, never served in the Army. So, Buhari cannot be Jonathan. But if we must scratch beyond the surface to unearth the real meaning of this phrase, we may have no choice than to plead with the handlers and advisers of the President to allow him have a face of ‘Jonathan’ in his disposition towards the almighty Saturday presidential elections, in the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians who voted masively for him in 2015. Aside from some uncouth remarks by members of the PDP against key opposition players and the President himself (the APC is also guilty), a good number of Nigerians think that the PDP would earn more marks if the two major parties were to be assessed on the basis of peaceful, civilised rallies and undue attacks on opponents. It is in this light that we urge the ruling party to mend its image by calling its agents and senior party members to order, across the states. Nigerians must be sure of their safety on the days of the elections, and must not be intimidated by opposition thugs like what was observed in previous stand-alone elections, especially in Osun State. There is no gainsaying the fact that the pockets of serious violence that have been recorded so far during the ongoing campaigns have mainly been linked to APC rallies in states, or to confrontations by rival factions of the ruling party. This does not give anything but immoral image for a party trying hard to entrench itself as a better alternative to what it describes as a party of corrupt Nigerians. If the leaders of a supposed credible party nurture, pamper and celebrate thugs to intimidate even their own members, when all the training a thug has is to maim or kill, then one can imagine how incorruptible elected officials on the party’s platform would turn out. While we may not, categorically, queue behind any party or any candidate in the elections that are just a few hours away, we urge the ruling government to make the best of the opportunity presented on a platter of gold to tell Nigerians that Buhari can actually be better than Jonathan in terms of electoral integrity. Having said this, we would urge Nigerians to ignore misleading news fabricated to scare the electorate, and go out en masse to vote the leaders of their choice on Saturday. One vote can make that difference that we need in Nigeria. To the ruling government, if in 2015, Jonathan’s famous call to the “yet-to-be-announced president” could save a nation that was, at the time, sitting on a keg of gunpowder, even when his foot-soldiers, in their desperation, would not mind to rewrite the results, Buhari (or those in charge) must learn to respect the will of the people, wherever it manifests. The same applies to the opposition. On a final note, as Nigeria prepares for a major election that can go in the direction of any of the two major political parties, we implore all citizens to shun electoral violence, disgrace vote buyers and speak strongly against future socio-economic disaster with their Permanent Voter’s Cards. Good luck 
Nigerians! 