Emmanuel Samuel, Yola President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress has beaten former Vice President and the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party , Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, in his home polling unit in Yola, the Adamawa State capital. Buhari won in Atiku’s polling unit 012, Ajiya Ward, Jimeta, Yola North Local Government Area of Adamawa State by 186 votes to Atiku’s 176 votes . Speaking to the press earlier on Saturday after casting his votes, Atiku pledged to accept the result of the presidential election even if he loses, provided the poll was credibly conducted. Atiku said as a democrat, he had no problem with accepting the poll’s results. “I am a true democrat unlike others. So far so good,” he said. Atiku, who reiterated that although he was sure he would win, said he would accept defeat if the conduct of the poll turned out to be transparently free and fair. He expressed satisfaction with the turn out of voters to exercise their franchise during the polls, and said he hoped all those officiating the conduct of the election would do their jobs in all honesty. “I am impressed with the turnout of the voters. I hope the electoral officers would be able to cope with the crowd,” Atiku said. Earlier,  Alhaji Auwal Tukur, a former governorship candidate of the PDP, also said he was satisfied with the turnout of the electorate to vote, saying last Saturday’s postponement appeared not to have had impact on voters’ turnout this time. “I am certain with all that I have seen so far that everything will be well. Where challenges are noticed, I am sure it would be resolved,” he said. Also speaking the Secretary to the Federal Government, Mr. Boss Mustapha, said he was impressed with the large turnout of  voters. “So far so good, I am impressed with the large turn-out of voters in Adamawa. From what I see on ground, the turn-out of the electorate is highly impressive and encouraging. ‘‘The turn out in this particular polling unit, where I started voting since 1999, is amazing and remarkable,’’ Mustapha said. Mustapha expressed his feeling shortly after casting his vote at Gwadabawa 09 polling unit in Yola North Local Government Area. He also stated his happiness with the peaceful conduct of the elections as well as the presence of security officials in the area. Mustapha remarked that reports available to him indicated that there was peaceful atmosphere and the voting exercise was going on without any hitch. On the election process, he commended the voters for their patience and orderliness in performing their civic responsibilities. He observed that the ballot papers were too large with many political parties which needs to be reviewed with time. 