The Kaduna State Command of the Department of State Services has explained why it arrested the Director General of the Peoples Democratic Party campaign, Ben Bako. The security outfit said it picked up Bako because of a recent inciting statement credited to him. It said if left unchecked, the comment was capable of leading to a “complete breakdown of law and order in the state and beyond”. It would be recalled, that the PDP Campaign DG, Mr. Ben Bako, was arrested after a video in which he allegedly called for anybody that fails to vote for the PDP in the forthcoming election to be killed. The PDP in the state, however, said his arrest was part of a plan by the All Progressives Congress in the state to clampdown on opposition elements. But in a statement issued in Kaduna, the DSS said the PDP chieftain was arrested in order for him to “shed more light on his inciting statement. The statement which, was issued and signed by AI Koya, director of DSS of the state Command said, “other people with similar tendencies are also being investigated and would equally face the same fate if found culpable. His words: “On the 9th February, 2019, this service invited Mr. Ben. Bako to shed more light on his inciting statement and call for violence in the state. Earlier on the 7th February, 2019 Bako had addressed a rally at Kafanchan, Jema’a local government area of Kaduna state. “During the rally, Bako was recorded calling his followers to kill anybody that votes for any party other than the PDP. The video has already gone viral through the social media. “Bako, a former commissioner for information in this state and a leader in his own right made this call along with other inviting statements at Kafanchan, deliberately with the intention to cause violence in the state “This development, if left unchecked, could lead to complete breakdown of law and order in this state and beyond. Consequently, Bako is under investigation by the service and would be charged to court as soon as investigation is completed. Other people with similar tendencies are also being investigated and would equally face the same fate if found culpable. “The service assures the good people of Kaduna state that in collaboration with sister security agencies would ensure that citizens are free to exercise their right to freedom of association and choice without hindrance,” the statement read. But the PDP in the state has accused that the action of the DSS was premeditated, saying that, the party was aware of the ruling party’s plan arrest top leaders of the opposition party. Chairman of the PDP, Mr. Felix Hassan Hyat, who addressed the press at the party’s secretariat in Kaduna said, “in the first week of December, 2018 we started hearing rumours that the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufa’i in collaboration with State Security agencies will arrest strong PDP members, days before the elections. “We took it as mere rumours. The reality is now on ground and the action has started.” 