 As the much anticipated 2019 presidential elections draw closer, the two leading candidates, President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party seem to be in a head-to-head position with analysts and pundits unable to agree on a clear winner. As the parties close their campaigns today (Thursday), keen watchers of political developments have said that the initial gap, which President Muhammadu Buhari was perceived to enjoy over Atiku Abubakar, some weeks back, may have closed up. Political watchers and analysts believe that if the presidential election holds today, Abubakar could floor the incumbent president, though with a simple majority margin. However, some are certain that Buhari remains the man to beat, given his party’s control of 26 states, compared with PDP’s 12. Regardless, the surprises could start from the North West, which was initially seen as the catchment area of Buhari and APC and is, apparently, no longer so. The huge and unprecedented crowd that witnessed the campaign rally of Atiku Abubakar and the PDP, last Sunday, in Kano, was a testament that former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso is still solidly on ground in Kano, and that Kano might just go the way of PDP on Saturday. Political analysts believe the bribery allegations hanging around Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s neck and the vehement defence of his alleged action by President Muhammadu Buhari is already bringing down the support enjoyed by Buhari in Kano State. Also, the PDP Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, is already gaining ground in Sokoto, where Governor Aminu Tambuwal is mobilising support for him. So the situation in the North West appears to be 50- 50 between the two leading candidates. Abubakar, according to findings, has an edge in the North East, his home base, and a region that has not been in power at the centre since the death of former Prime Minister Tafawa Balewa in 1966. The North Central is unarguably a strong support base for Abubakar. The reason for this is not far-fetched. The farmers/herdsmen clashes in the region and the non-prosecution of any of the rampaging herdsmen by the Buhari government has drawn a lot of support for the PDP’s candidate. The combative posture of Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai, who is seen as favouring his Fulani ethnic stock over several other groups in the state, is likely to cost the ruling party a lot of votes this time around, according to The Point’s findings. Analysts also note that the South South and South East are traditionally PDP strong areas, which should give Atiku an upper edge in these two regions, despite misgivings about the choice of former Anambra State governor, Peter Obi, as Atiku’s running mate “without consultations.” The PDP ticket is seen as the only realistic gateway to an Igbo Presidency. South West definitely will be a battle ground between the two leading candidates. While Buhari will benefit from the political influence of the National Leader of his party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Abubakar has already been endorsed by the mainstream Afenifere, led by Pa Reuben Fasoranti. The restructuring policy as enshrined in Abubakar’s agenda “Let’s get Nigeria work again” has also drawn a lot of support in the region for Atiku Abubakar in the Saturday presidential election. Lagos will be interesting, given its large population of Igbos, who seem to have committed to the PDP ticket, even though the state remains the bastion of power for Tinubu. Many people, who spoke to The Point in Abuja, expressed the fear that if Buhari wins the presidential election on Saturday, Nigerians might be in for trouble. They based their fear on what they described as the likelihood of his government being hijacked by a powerful cabal that had been accused of actually ruling in his stead. Their position is drawn from the open pronouncement of President Buhari’s wife, Aisha, that two men, not her husband, are in charge of affairs at Aso Rock. Many also feared that Atiku Abubakar might soft-pedal on the anti-corruption war. BUHARI’S ‘SINS’ Some of Buhari’s “sins” that have also come into the equation include the economic hardship currently being witnessed by many people in the country; skewed anti-corruption war; perception as nepotistic;, failure to tackle the herdsmen/famers clashes in time; resurgence of Boko Haram, despite his military credentials; and refusal to restructure the country as promised in the APC manifesto. This is aside from his uncertain health status. “We should not blame people who are citing hardship as the reason why they will not vote for Buhari. Buhari’s government should have put human faces to its policies,” a political commentator, Comrade Isa Lawal, said. While speaking on the odds against Buhari in the Saturday poll, Dr. Akin Osuntokun, one of the spokespersons of the PDP Campaign Organisation, said his failed promises would stand against him. He said, “Buhari arrived the scene in 2015 as the personification of anti-corruption, who according to his promoters, will fight corruption to a standstill. At the end of four years, it is only the daft and the corrupt, who would not agree with the verdict of the non-partisan international community that Buhari has turned out a big scam on this score. “Atiku Abubakar came and regardless of the corruption personification tag on him, truthfully proposed a realistic approach that had proved most effective elsewhere, that in addition to other measures, he would grant amnesty to all who have corruptly enriched themselves in return for the repatriation of the looted funds back to the owners – the Nigerian public. You would think that, against the background of the double jeopardy that the duplicitous policy of Buhari (that had resulted in greater perpetration of corruption without any significant recouping of stolen Nigerian money), our hypocritical elite would have learnt their lessons. “Atiku has the choice of playing along with the charade of tough empty talk on jailing looters and fighting corruption to a standstill. But he chose to be honest and truthful, after all, talk is cheap. No one has highlighted the self-destructive nature of Nigeria more than Buhari.” Also speaking with The Point, the South West Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Eddy Olafeso, said the failure of Buhari on all fronts in the last three and half years would haunt him at Saturday’s election. “President Muhammadu Buhari is going into the Saturday election as an incumbent that has failed on all his promises. He has unfulfilled promises in the three key areas he promised the nation – economy, war against corruption and fight against Boko Haram insurgency. The fight against corruption has been seen as a hoax, as every corrupt Nigerian in PDP had already moved into the ruling APC. ODDS AGAINST ATIKU Speaking with The Point, the National Coordinator, Democracy Vanguard, Comrade Adeola Soetan, said one negative for Atiku Abubakar was peoples’ corruption perception about. “So I would say the corruption toga is an odd against him. His desire to sell NNPC (Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation) is another one. People believe the sale of our national assets in the past had not brought much progress, more so that he said that he would sell NNPC to his friends,” he claimed. But he was quick to add, “Who is not corrupt among these our politicians. Is it Tinubu or Amaechi? Buhari may be seen to be clean but he is surrounding himself with corrupt people.” Comrade Sola Olawale of the Campaign for Democracy said, “Why is it that it is during elections time that Babachir Lawal is being prosecuted? Why now? “It is sheer hypocrisy for Buhari to be prosecuting Oke and Babachir Lawal now. Nigerians are wise.” OPINION POLLS Though opinion polls may not actually determine who gets a post in a particular election, they have, in the past, formed the basis of victory predictions for candidates. Political analysts are of the opinion that recent opinion polls concerning the election have also indicated a possibility of an Atiku win but there is no consensus as others hand it to Buhari. For instance, The Point Newspaper’s poll, initiated on Monday, favoured Atiku Abubakar, with a 52 per cent edge over the incumbent Buhari, who got 48 per cent of the total votes, across geo-political zones. Also, while Eurasia Group predicted a win for Buhari by 60 per cent, other pollsters, including the Economist Intelligence Unit, Teneo and Willam and Associates, have predicted a win for Atiku. Eurasia, a global research and political risk solutions firm, based in New York, said almost a fortnight ago that Buhari’s win would be based on the odds stacked against Atiku, which it said included lack of support for key PDP elements in the South East, especially some governors, who are still miffed that the candidate did not consult them on key decisions, as well as problems that Senate President Bukola Saraki might be having in his Kwara base to retain his seat, amongst others. This position is, however, contrary to that of the The Economist Intelligence Unit Africa, which predicted a narrow margin of victory for the PDP candidate, despite the suspicions about his antecedents. “Abubakar is hard-pressed to convince voters that he is a clean politician, having been on the receiving end of numerous graft allegations in the past. We retain our forecast for Abubakar to win, but expected margin of victory is narrowing as the poll approaches,” the magazine said. In 2015, the magazine had predicted victory for Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress over the then incumbent, Goodluck Jonathan. The EIU position is buttressed by an even more optimistic prediction by Teneo, which forecasts a 16-point lead over Buhari. Specifically, Teneo says that assuming that the election is ‘reasonably free and fair,’ it is forecasting a first-round victory by the main opposition candidate, Atiku Abubakar, with up to 57 per cent of votes, against an anticipated 42 per cent, to be cast for the incumbent, President Muhammadu Buhari. It, however, warned that the projection was based on a free and fair election, where levels of fraud, voter intimidation and manipulations do not exceed 2015 levels, while also pointing out that the results would likely be contested in any case as has been the tradition since 1999. International pollster, Williams and Associates, also predicted that Atiku Abubakar would win the election. Williams and Associates had, in a similar field work in 2015, predicted the defeat of the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan in the last presidential election in Nigeria. The pollster, which indicated on its website that it conducted its poll, using the same methodology as in 2015, across all the six geo political zones, said the result of the poll showed that Atiku would win other candidates in the election with 45 per cent of the total votes cast, 12 per cent higher than his closest opponent, incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari, who polled 33 per cent. According to the results, 64 per cent of respondents disapprove that Buhari has done his job well enough to deserve re-election. It added that the contentious issues that would shape the direction of the election are unemployment, poverty, corruption, insecurity among other issues, which the opposition says that the Buhari administration has failed to adequately address. WHY ATIKU WON’T WIN – KEYAMO However, official spokesman of the Buhari reelection campaign, Festus Keyamo, dismissed the polls in favour of Abubakar, claiming that the international media had given him negative mention as the election draws closer. According to Keyamo, the odds are stacked against Abubakar. He said, “Currently, we have more than 20 governors with us while they have 12. Away from that, I learnt they are bragging with crowd, but let me remind them that Jonathan had more crowd in 2015 and he was defeated. Election in Nigeria is no more by crowd because Nigerians are wiser and they know the person they will cast their votes for. “Moreover, despite the fact that Atiku is from the North, he should expect the defeat of his life there before other regions will compliment it. President Buhari has contested several elections in this region and he has always won it.” ‘EVERY PATRIOTIC NIGERIAN MUST VOTE BUHARI OUT’ But the National Chairman of the African Democratic Congress, Chief Ralphs Nwosu, said it was the                      duty of every patriotic Nigerian to rise and vote out Buhari. He said, “We cannot continue having this man as the president in the next four years. Look at how he has ruined the country. He and Tinubu have personalised everything in this country with their selfish philosophies. When you look at the activities that surround this campaign period you will agree with me that this man is going back to his farm after the election. Look at what befell them in Abeokuta and other places; it was a clear indication that the party is doomed and up for giving up power. “APC is not a party because, in every manner, they are not stable. For instance, their slogan was change and when they realised the change has exposed them to doom they have to change to Next Level and Nigerians are crying they don’t want to go to the next level that will crash their lives. I tell you, watch out for the defeat, because everything at the moment is against him.” Whether the forecasts and chest beating are going to be accurate or just hot air, Saturday February 16 remains the decider. 