Chris Njoku, Owerri Suspected men in army uniform Saturday reportedly diverted ballot papers meant for ward 6 comprising Umuaga, Umuewere  and Umuowa in Ngor Okpala Local Government Area, Imo State. The snatching  of the sensitive materials threw the whole area into confusion as voters were seen waiting endlessly for the intervention of the Independent National Electoral Commission officials. As at 1pm, the voters were yet to cast their votes. However, at Amala Etu Oburu in ward1 said to be the largest ward in Ngor Okpala, materials were in short supply. The INEC Chairman in the state, Prof. Francis Ezeonu, told The Point that he was trying to fix the problem and similar others. He acknowledged that “there were reported cases of material shortage in some areas in the state which we are trying to resolve.” In Owerri North LGA, voting material arrived most polling booths late. At Egbelu Obube election material arrived there at 10.30am. Also, in Emekukwu ward 1 voters alleged sabotage following the shortage of 860 voting material for both senate and House of Representatives elections. Reacting, Ambassador Kema Chikwe said that it was a deliberate attempt to deny voters the right  to vote at the election for the candidate of their choice. A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party , Kelechi Eke,  blamed the ruling All Progressives Congress  for the shortage. According to him,  “APC does not want the elections to go on. They are responsible because they own INEC. They want to provoke our people. But I  have told our people to maintain peace and  go ahead with the election. “ At Ideato North, Ezihiette and Isiala Mbano local government areas, election materials arrived late in most of the polling booths in the areas. However, INEC was commended for early arrival of electoral materials in some polling booths in the state. Some party chieftains said the situation would have been worse if the election was not first postponed. Former PDP chairman in Ngor Okpala  LGA, Chief Clement Nwigwe, said the situation would have been worse but for the postponement. “if the election was not postponed, many people would have been disenfranchised. Although, it affected us because some of our sons and daughters before the postponement did not come home for this election.” Owerri zone senatorial candidate, Mike Nwachukwu, appealed to INEC to allow the votes of the people  to count. “If we observe carefully you will notice  that postponement was justified as there would have been confusion if the election was held then, ” he said. 