There was pandemonium in parts of Atakunmosa East Local Government Area of Osun State few hours to the postponed Saturday, February 16 presidential and National Assembly  elections as some armed bandits  invaded some communities in the council area. Our correspondent gathered that the gunmen struck around 11:30pm Thursday, February 14 and shot sporadically with stray bullet hitting  some residents of Iwara, Olowu, Atorin, Ifewara, Temidayo, Tobalase, Lapaide and Faforiji communities. Amid the confusion, an 11-year- old girl, Rukayat Balogun, was reportedly shot in the leg by the gunmen while trying to escape with her mother, Mrs Fasilat Balogun, an O – Meal school food vendor. It was gathered that Rukayat was rushed to Wesley Guild Hospital in Ilesa where she received treatment. The gunmen reportedly terrorised the communities for over four hours with several houses sacked. In a funny twist, the All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial candidate in Osun East Senatorial District, Hon. Ajibola Famurewa, linked a contestant from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chief Francis Fadahunsi, with the attack. Famurewa alleged that the gunmen were political thugs hired by Fadahunsi to attack members of the APC in the communities, saying only houses belonging to APC members were sacked. The APC candidate, representing Ijesa South Federal Constituency, said he had intimated the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Abiodun Ige, on the development. Famurewa, who expressed displeasure over the influx of political thugs in the area, said the hoodlums had been terrorising the APC supporters in the area for some time. He said, “The thugs were armed with dangerous weapons like guns, axes and charms. The mother of the 11-year-old girl who is currently receiving treatment at the Wesley Guild Hospital, Ilesa also confirmed that a political thug called ‘Serere’ led the gang to her house when the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, visited the girl whose was shot on the leg. “Though we have appealed to our members and supporters to remain calm in the face of provocation, but let it be known that we are resolute in our determination to resist violence and intimidation in our land”. However, Fadahunsi denied the APC candidate’s allegation saying that as a patriotic citizen, he could not be linked with importation of ammunition and thuggery. 