 By MATTHEW DIKE  Two policewomen attached to the Layeni Police Station, Ajegunle, Lagos, have landed in serious trouble for allegedly conniving with a suspected ritualist to kill the Divisional Police Officer, Barnabas Okosodo and the station officer, of the division, Sgt Ameh. The two policewomen and the suspected  ritualist,\ identified as Kelechi Ozoude had allegedly connived and bought all the necessary fetish items to be used to prepare charms to kill the DPO and the station officer, when their plan leaked. Investigation by our correspondent revealed that the two policewomen identified as Inspector Augusta and Sergeant Marvis had embarked on a journey of vendetta because the DPO, Chief Superintendent of Police Okosodo and his station officer had allegedly posted them to beats they did not like. The female police officers were said to have vowed to deal with the DPO and the station officer by using occult means to send them to their early graves. The female officers were said to have contacted a suspected ritualist, Ozoude who had his shrine at Akanbi Street, Ajeromi/ Ifelodun Local Government Area of Lagos State. Ozoude had allegedly collected N60, 000 from them to procure all the materials he would need for the fetish job. When the secret was leaked to CSP Okosodo, he arrested the two female officers, who took policemen to the shrine of the suspected ritualist. It was learnt that the police arrested and recovered from the ritualist’s shrine one small white goat, two lizards, two coconuts, two packets of sweet, one olive oil, incense, two five-litre jerry cans containing liquid concoction, two copies of the Bible – one yellow large bible and a small brown one, and five  clay pots, among other items. A police sergeant attached to the Layeni Police Station disclosed that the DPO, “Led the operation to arrest the ritualist and recover the fetish items for the job. The secret was revealed when the two women started arguing about adding the station officer to those to kill. While the inspector allegedly insisted that the station officer’s name should be included for elimination, the sergeant disagreed, saying she was not a party to that. The ritualist also complained about the N60, 000 paid to him, saying that it was too small. They also promised to add more money for him to carry out the action.” Ozoude debunked the claim that he is a ritualist, claimg to be an ordained pator of Sabbath Church. He said the women only came for prayers  which he promised to do for them.They paid him money. Police also collected the goat, two lizards  and other items from in church. Our correspondent gathered that the DPO dragged the three suspects before the Area ‘B’ Apapa Police Commander, ACP Ahmodu Mohammed, who after interrogating them, ordered that they should make statements while the police carried out a discreet investigation on the matter. But policemen at the Area ‘B’ Apapa Police Command had argued that the male suspect was telling lies that he was not a ritualist but the pastor of a Sabbath church. An assistant superintendent of police attached to Area ‘B’ Police Command, who spoke under condition of anonymity, said, “The ritualist was begging, saying, ‘Please I’m not a ritualist. I’m a pastor. I belong to the Sabbath Church. The women came to me for a spiritual job.’ This man can never be a pastor. He is telling lies. “He is either a ritualist or a fraudster, who has swindled the two women of their money. They had believed that he had the power to use diabolical means that could kill the DPO and the Station Officer. The two foolish women were his ‘mugu’. How could police women descend so low and wicked as to engage themselves in such diabolical means of trying to kill their DPO because of posting. What is in posting? They can post you to a place you will not like, but God knows why He allowed such. Such a posting can even turn out to be better than the place you think is very lucrative.” The General Overseer of God of Miracle Heavenly Ministry, Prophet Jude Nwachukwu, corroborated the police officer, adding, “There is no man of God that will want to engage in fetish things or who will like to take somebody’s life. A man of God cannot be a murderer. A man of God cannot discuss such a heinous sin with anybody. What a man of God would have done was to pray for the two police women, who I suspect are possessed. Anybody who plan such an evil is possessed. They should repent. They need proper cleansing. Not from a fake pastor.” 