By ADELEKE ADESANYA  The National Council for Women Society has demanded stiffer punishment for Sen. Elisha Abbo over his recent assault of a nursing mother at an adult toy shop in Abuja. The Chairman of NCWS in the Federal Capital Territory, Mrs. Hadiza Umar, while briefing newsmen in Abuja, said the group also rejected the senator’s apology and advocated stiffer punishment to serve as deterrent to others who assault women in workplace, shops or markets. Umar said, “I am here with my executives and members of NCWS FCT chapter for a peaceful demonstration on what an elected senator, who is supposed to serve us, did to one of our women. “We want to stop the barbaric habits against women, either at home, in the markets, shops, work place and everywhere in the country. “We are women of integrity and mothers; we are not animals and we are saying no to violence against all women and the assault should stop with immediate effect.” The NCWS chairman called on the United Nations and all other international organisations to ensure the prosecution of Senator Abbo in order to guard against future occurrence. “We reject his apology and we will do everything within the ambit of the law to demand justice for our fellow woman, who was assaulted,” she said. The Acting Secretary, FCT Social Development Secretariat, Mrs. Safiya Umar, said violence against women is an international offence as clearly stipulated in the UN Convention and the Beijing Charter. She disclosed that the secretariat had sent an invitation to Abbo to come and explain what transpired. According to her, the secretariat is very passionate about anything that affects women and children in the FCT. The Director of Gender Development Department, Mrs. Agnes Hart, said the department would not relent in doing everything humanly possible to stop violence against women, children and the physically challenge people in the FCT. Hart said, “It is our mandate to remain focused, to fight this monster that is bedeviling our society. “It is so strange and unbecoming to us a human being treating a fellow human being in such a disgraceful manner. “The video we saw is mind-boggling because some of us couldn’t sleep after watching the video. We are overwhelmed with issues of domestic violence in highly places; people you least expected will demonstrate that level of venom on a fellow human being.” 