By TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The federal government has been asked to prioritise sport and harness its potentials to tackle problems of insecurity and poverty affecting the country. The first Professor of Sport in Africa and Vice Chancellor, Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, ABUAD, Michael Ajisafe, said government at all levels and other stakeholders should explore the sport sector as a veritable tool for youth empowerment, towards checkmating restiveness and other vices militating against national development. Ajisafe explained that government needed to invest in sport to capture the attention of the youths, and turn them to agents of peace and national development. He argued that sport as tool for national integration, had over the years, created platforms for youth engagement, training and economic growth. Ajisafe who was also the pioneer Director, National Institute for Sports, Lagos State, made the call in Ibadan, Oyo State, while delivering the July edition of SWAN Seat Lecture of Sports Writers Association of Nigeria, SWAN, Oyo state Chapter. Also speaking on the occasion, the Vice Chancellor, University of Ilorin, Professor Sulyman  Abdulkareem, noted that the University has been prioritizing sports development for talent discovery and youth empowerment. Represented by the Director, UNILORIN Sports Council, Professor Olufunmilola Dominic, the VC advised various arms of government to invest in sports and encourage youths to participate in it saying it would make them meaningfully engaged and productive. In their separate remarks, the Comptroller, Nigeria Immigration Service, Oyo State Command, Mr. Abdullahi Saleh, represented by Assistant Controller, Immigration, Dr.S.O. Aregbede; and the Commandant, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Oyo State Command,  Dr. John Adewoye, represented by a Deputy Superintendent of Corps, Mr. Sunday Aleshinloye, jointly agreed that sport had the potential to end most of the societal security challenges, if properly harnessed. Speaking on behalf of Permanent Secretary, Oyo State Ministry of Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Bashir Olanrewaju, a Director in the Ministry and former Chairman, Nigeria Union of Journalists, Oyo State Council, Mr. Solomon Ayoade, promised the full support of the Ministry to the Oyo SWAN leadership in the efforts to redefine sport in the state, especially through its various programmes. In a remark, SWAN Vice President, Southwest, Mr. Boye Ajayi, who identified sport as the  shortest way to fame, wealth and power, urged the youths to develop interest in sporting activities, to register their names in the society’s hall of fame. 