By KAJO MARTINS, MAKURDI The Catholic Bishop of Makurdi Diocese in Benue State, Most Revd. Chipka Anagbe, has taken a swipe at the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, accusing it of promoting an agenda in favour of the Fulani ethnic group at the detriment of other nationalities in the country. The cleric spoke while delivering a Homily to mark the 10th priestly ordination anniversary of Reverend Fr. Benjamin Shima Ukpanya at the Catholic Youth Center Parish, Makurdi. Bishop Anagbe argued that in the last four years the Buhari government had not put in place programmes for the construction of hospitals, schools and roads for the benefit of the people, but rather chose to embark on implementing the controversial RUGA projects for his Fulani ethnic group. He alleged that the suspended RUGA projects would have covered 30,000 hectares of land or 30 kilometres in the three local government areas of Ukum, Tarka and Oturkpo in Benue State meant to build settlements, schools, hospitals and water projects for the Fulani business class with government resources. The cleric noted with dismay that, while since 2018, hundreds of displaced people had been languishing in various Internally Displaced Persons camps in Benue State without Federal Government’s attention, the Buhari administration preferred to go for RUGA projects rather than ranches that would bring permanent solutions to the age-long farmers/herders’ clashes across the country. He said, “Some political class in the state say Bishop Anagbe is playing politics. But let me remind them that I voted during the elections and I led over five hundred thousand Catholic faithful that voted during the polls and I have the right to know policies that affect members of my church, negatively or positively. “I will keep talking. If they want, let them kill me. I’m ripe for death, if it is in the interest of peace, equity and justice. Tiv people voted for Buhari in 2015, but had no ministerial slot in his government. I pity such Tiv people who are still following him.” Bishop Anagbe pointed out that the Nigerian passport is at the moment bearing features of cows and an ethic group classified as the fourth most dreaded terrorist group in the world. The Catholic Bishop, who promised not to maintain sealed lips on issues affecting his parishioners, revealed his plans to organise an advocacy in the Catholic Diocese of Makurdi, where all the elected representatives, including members of the national and state houses of Assembly would appear to give account of how they utilise constituency funds. He assured that if anyone of the lawmakers failed to convince them about how his constituency fund was spent, he would not hesitate to lead the campaign against the re-election of such a politician. The Bishop also commended Revd. Father Benjamin Ukpanya, the parish priest of the Catholic Youth Center Parish for organising a thanksgiving to appreciate God for His mercies and prayed for his success in the Lord’s vineyard. 