By MATTHEW DIKE Operatives of the Anti- Cultism Unit attached to the Ajegunle Police Station, Lagos, have arrested a suspected armed robber in possession of two pistols. The suspected armed robber, identified as Peter Ozoka, was alleged to have almost shot the policemen because one of the pistols found on him was already corked. The policemen on patrol duty were said to be patrol in their vehicle at Ago- Hausa Street, Ajegunle, when the commander of the team identified as Inspector Musiliu Adepoju, sighted two men riding on a motorcycle. A police sergeant attached to the station disclosed that Adepoju told his colleagues that they should monitor the motorcycle, as he suspected the man on the passenger seat. The sergeant disclosed that Adepoju reminded the policemen that the Officer-in-Charge of the Anti- Cultism Unit of the Lagos State Police Command, CSP Uduak Udom, the advice he gave them on the need to also monitor motorcycles carrying only two riders. The policeman said, “The armed robbers are no fools. They know that police usually stop and search mostly motorcycles mounted by three or more people. So, they have decided to be moving in twos- a rider and his passenger. So, immediately the commander reminded his colleague, he alighted from the vehicle and grabbed the man on the passenger seat. “The suspected armed robber wrestled with Adepoju until they both fell into a drainage, but Adepoju overpowered him. He disarmed him, he removed one pistol from his trousers. And they dragged him inside the patrol vehicle. As Adepoju grabbed the man on the passenger seat, the rider sped off.” The source said that God saved the policemen because after arresting the suspect who was armed with gun, they did not know that the criminal had another gun on him. He was said to be struggling to bring out something from his pocket, but when the policemen suspected and conducted another search on him, they discovered that another Berretta American pistol was carefully hidden in his trousers. The police also recovered that second pistol. The Point gathered that the suspect is now helping the police on how to arrest his fleeing colleague and their operational motorcycle. 