By Samuel Fasua Tensions now mounts in the Eleyele area of  Ibadan, Oyo State, as the community’s native cult worshippers have served a one-month ultimatum on the family of one  Mr. Samson Olawale Olalere, the fleeing heir apparent to the aged Oluawo (chief) of the community, to bretrace his steps or face unpleasant consequences. Investigations showed that 33-year-old Olalere had been living in fear as a result of frequent threatening phone calls from the cult group and following the recent  visit of prominent and influential members of the group to his Ikorodu residence in Lagos. Our source revealed that their visit was to further stress the importance of performing the necessary rituals and to give him 120 days ultimatum to present himself or face the consequences that abound. As gathered, the current Oluawo, who is aged 96 years, is mandated by age-long traditions to install and perform the traditional rites and rituals that would usher in the new Oluawo of the town, before his demise, for the peace and prosperity of the old community. There is now serious tension in the community, it was gathered, as the cult group has reportedly threatened to trace Olalere to anywhere in the country through magical powers and paralyse him if he fails to surrender himself before the community’s native shrine. According to a chief in the community, who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, ”It’s very important that the family brings Olalere and makes him to accept the traditional role, as his continued refusal would spell a lot of danger  for  him,  and the community at large should prepare for the misfortunes that would follow.” He also stressed, “It’s very important that the rites and sacrifices are performed before the demise of the current Oluawo”. According to him, “it has been the customs  and a tradition that any passing Oluawo must perform some rites to usher in his successor before his demise. So, it is a must for the family to produce Olalere or wait for the penalties and dangers that will follow, if the current Oluawo should pass on without performing the necessary rituals.” All attempts by our correspondent to speak with the leaders of the family were fruitless as none of them was willing to talk about it for fear of native curses. 