 …as University don, Cornerstone Insurance, safety experts also confirmed attendance Toyota Nigeria Limited will be presenting a technical training session at the 2019 Nigeria Auto Journalists Asociation Training/Capacity Building Workshop holding this Friday at the Golden Tulip Hotel, along Airport Road in Lagos. Other stakeholders expected to make presentations during the one-day event, are Aliyu Jelani, Director-General, National Automotive Design & Development Council and Boboye Oyeyemi, Corp Marshal of the Federal Roads Safety Corps.
Others are Oscar Odiboh, an academic doctor with the Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State and Adenusi Patrick, Executive Director of Safety Beyond borders. Cornerstone Insurance is also providing more insight on Insurance matters as it relates to the automotive industry. While Oscar Odiboh will be beaming searchlight on ‘’Zero Patronage, Zero Tariff and the Redefinition of Patriotism by Nigeria’s Automobile Industry’’, Adenusi Patrick, on his part, will be taking critical look at ‘’Road Users Attitude- Cost and Effect’’. The annual training workshop, which is designed to boost human capacity for journalists reporting the automotive sector in the country, is the fourth edition in the series. Aside Toyota Nigeria Limited, CFAO, Weststar Associates, Mercedes Benz, Stallion Motors, Mandilas, Pirelli and Cornestone Insurance are also part of the major sponsors of the event. Chairman of Nigeria Auto Journalists Association, Mike Ochonma said the training workshop, which is in its fourth edition is aiming at refreshing the knowledge and competency of automotive journalists while on the job. The NAJA training workshop is an annual training programme organised to refresh the minds of practicing auto journalists on the trend of auto journalism worldwide. Members of the association are motoring journalists that cut across the newspapers, television and online media organisations including bloggers from across the country. “Journalism is wide and we must open ourselves to consistent training and retraining. It is important that journalists writing about the automotive sector are well informed; they must be well educated and empowered to write effectively,” the NAJA Chairman said. On her part, Julie Chi-Nwaoha, chairperson of this year’s event noted that there is need for consistent training and retraining because of its benefit to the motoring journalists that are reporting the beat. She maintained that, the automotive industry is one fundamental industry in Nigeria that one cannot ignore because of its huge contributions to the nation’s economy. 