By Angela Onwuzoo Worried by growing insecurity in the country, a former governor of old Kaduna State, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, and a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mr. Femi Falana, on Sunday issued a joint statement, calling on President Muhammadu Buhari and his team to address the country on the state of national security and also re-jig its strategy to ensure the safety of lives and property. Balarabe and Falana said it was unfortunate that Nigeria was being defined by the problem of insecurity, warning that anarchy loomed if the trend was not arrested in time. They stated, “Nigeria is increasingly being defined by insecurity. Killings have become almost a daily affair in Nigeria. Terror attacks, banditry, kidnapping, and armed robbery are perpetrated by criminals with reckless abandon. “Amid the cacophony of ethnic and regional voices, it is imperative that pan – Nigerian voices should be heard louder than ever before to save Nigeria from disintegration.  The symptoms of the brewing socio-political crisis are manifest.” The activists stressed that the Nigerian state had failed to tackle the worsening insecurity plaguing every part of the country. The statement read in part: “In practical terms, no part of Nigeria is immune to violent crimes, although the incidence might be relatively higher in one part than the other at this time. The tragic news of lives wasted issues from the north and south, east and west. “In response to the flourishing crimes in the face of the worrisome incompetence of the state, ethnic and regional champions have resorted into the dangerous ethnic profiling and demonisation of others. “It is the reign of hate speech and marketing of prejudice. Claiming to speak for “our people,” they issue irresponsible ultimatums and orders for which they lack constitutional authority to enforce.  Some of those who are supposed to act as statesmen at this critical hour have instead joined the ranks of issuers of prejudicial statements.” Balarabe and Falana said the best way to respond to the issues was to compel the Nigerian state under the watch of President Muhammadu Buhari to perform the constitutional duty of keeping Nigeria secure. They also urged law enforcement and other security agencies to fight crimes competently and strictly according to the law, noting that the ethnic and religious identity of the criminal is not of any importance. According to them, ethnic and religious profiling could distract from the urgent task of stamping out crimes. “The truth is that every ethnic and religious group has its share of criminals. We must separate crimes from prejudice so that criminals could be fought with a unity of purpose as a nation. It is also an indisputable fact that the victims of criminal activities belong to the various ethnic grounds and religions,” they stressed. Advising the President on how to tackle the issue, they called for “rethinking” of the country’s internal security strategy by considering some of the patriotic suggestions from conferences and panels set up by the government in the last few years. They added, “In our view, another conference (by whatever name) may not be coming up anything new given that the Nigerian condition is akin to an emergency.  The police and other security agencies should be equipped and organised to perform their duty in the light of the new dimensions of insecurity. The justice system, especially in the states, should be alert to their responsibility of diligent and swift prosecution of arrested suspected criminals. The respective attorneys-general in the affected states must prosecute suspected killers, kidnappers, and armed robbers. “All the tiers of government have responsibilities for security, working in unison.  If the degeneration in the Nigerian condition is not halted, the nation may descend into anarchy. Doubtless, the poor people will bear the brunt of such an avoidable disaster.   We, therefore, call on President to rally the country around a national purpose of security everywhere in Nigeria as the constitution demands. Meanwhile, the National leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has called on peace lovers to join hands and put an end to crimes in Nigeria. Tinubu made the call during the commendation service and night of tribute in memory of late Mrs. Olufunke Olakunri, daughter of the Afenifere leader, Pa Reuben Fasoranti at the Harbour Point in Victoria Island, Lagos at the weekend. Olakunri was shot dead by armed men suspected to be herdsmen along the Benin-Ore expressway, on July 12. According to the national leader, the late Mrs. Olakunri meant no harm and extended her goodwill to all. Tinubu said, “All who encountered Funke attests to her goodness, nobleness, decency. She meant no harm to no one; she extended goodwill and empathy to all. “In the spirit of Funke, let those who love peace, regardless of religion, tribe or political affiliation, come together so that we do all we can to put an end to such criminality in our society.” 