 The World Health Organization has revealed that young children exposed to second-hand tobacco smoke can develop pneumonia, bronchitis and lower respiratory infections. Tobacco, the WHO said also exacerbates asthma, which restricts activity and contributes to disability. According to the WHO Africa Regional Director, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, children were at great risk second-hand tobacco smoke. Moeti disclosed that about 165, 000 children worldwide die before the age of five years as a result of lower respiratory infection caused by second-hand tobacco smoke. She noted that  research carried out identified tobacco smoking as the main cause of lung cancer, which she said, contains more than 7, 000 chemicals, 69 of which are known to cause
cancer. “Exposure to tobacco smoke toxins in-utero reduces lung growth and function. Young children exposed to second-hand tobacco smoke can develop pneumonia, bronchitis and lower respiratory infections”, she
said. Giving further insight into the risk of tobacco smoke, Moeti said : “Tobacco smoking is also the leading cause of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which results in a painful cough and agonizing breathing difficulties. “The risk of developing the disease is high among individuals who start smoking at a young age because tobacco smoke significantly slows lung development. Tobacco also exacerbates asthma, which restricts activity and contributes to disability.” She revealed that there were high number of people diagnosed with the disease in Africa annually with high number of deaths recorded. “Smoking is the primary cause for lung cancer, responsible for more than two-thirds of lung cancer deaths. In 2018, 39, 353 new cases of lung cancer were diagnosed in Africa and 37, 748 deaths
occurred. “There is good news, though. People who quit smoking reduce their risk of lung cancer by 50 per cent after only 10 years”, she said. She therefore, called for increased awareness about the dangers associated with tobacco use and exposure to tobacco smoke as well as advocate for stronger policies on tobacco control. 