By Agnes Igwe, Abakaliki The members of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly have given support to a reduction of local government chairmen’s tenure in office from three to two years. This was part of their resolutions during matters of urgent public importance at the first plenary after two weeks recess. The motion for reduction of local government chairmen’s tenure to two years was raised by the Leader of the House and member representing Ezza North West, Hon Victor Chukwu, after heated deliberations by the members. It is stipulated to take effect after the next local government elections in the state. The legislators also gave a nod to first line charge method of payment of salaries and pensions of all local government staff in the state. The above resolutions were in response to demands of youth protesters numbering over hundred led by Hon. Mark Onu and Elder Sam Igwe to the House, where the Speaker, Rt. Hon Francis Nwifuru, assured that the House would look into their agitations. Meanwhile, the members gave approval to Governor David Umahi’s request to engage Tekton Global Limited to conduct fund discovery and recovery for the state. The company according to them, is expected to be self-sustaining by deducting only five percent from net revenue of ten million naira and above for one hundred million and above, they are to deduct only three percent, while the deduction for two hundred million and above is two percent only. According to them, since the idea is self-sustaining, the state stands to gain greatly as this will support and facilitate more rapid development of the state. They also approved the total sum of N52.5 million naira contract finance facility. The members assured during their deliberations that installation of the electronic gadgets shall reduce crimes related to land administration, make obtaining of certificate of occupancy easier, guarantee more revenue for the state, guarantee safe keeping and easy access to documents of the state, among other benefits. The House also constituted a five-man Business and House Standing Committee chaired by the Leader, Hon Victor Chukwu. 