 By Angela Onwuzoo The 2019 World Population Day held recently across the globe, with stakeholders in Nigeria calling for   urgent and  pragmatic steps to avert the dangers of uncontrolled population growth currently experienced in the country. They want the Federal and state governments to improve access to family planning services in remote areas to increase uptake by women. The Federal government, they said  should help in ensuring that all health facilities in rural communities have family planning services to avoid unintended pregnancies, which according them were high and fueling the country’s population at an exponential rate. Report however, shows that many women wanted family planning services, but faced challenges of either non -availability of such facility in remote areas or were disallowed by their husbands. The low uptake of family planning services  experts say, must be urgently addressed to avert the looming population explosion hovering in the country. The United Nations Population Fund,  in its 2019 state of the world population report, said Nigeria’s population has hit a new height of 201 million and with the current growth rate, the population is projected to hit 450 million by 2050. The report said contraceptive prevalence rate among Nigerian women aged 15-49 was only 19 per cent, adding that decision making on sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights among those women had averaged at 51 per cent between 2007 and 2018. ‘’This means 49 per cent of Nigerian women still do not have the power to decide on their sexual and reproductive health, as well as reproductive rights,’’ the report said. The UN agency estimated that Nigeria’s population has grown from 54.7 million in 1969 to 105.4 million in 1994 and 201.0 million in 2019. The rapid increase experts said,  would be a recipe for disaster if nothing was done to slow down the rate of growth. Also, Nigeria is the seventh largest population in the world, with a fertility rate of 5.5, meaning that the average Nigerian family in the productive stage will have an estimated five or six children. This does not only lead to increased population, it may also task scarce resources, while it may also affect the health of the family, especially women and children, according to medical sources. Besides,  major concern about this rapidly growing population is the fact that jobs, national infrastructures, social services, housing, health care facilities are not also growing at an equally comparable rate or at a faster rate like her population growth rate does. Yet, many Nigerian women do not have access  to family planning method of their choice to prevent unintended pregnancy. According to UNFPA,  no fewer than 20 million women in Nigeria had no access to safe and effective family planning services, revealing that most of those women that had no access to modern family planning method reside in rural areas and region of insurgency in the country. However, health stakeholders continue to express worry over the low uptake of family planning services among women of reproductive age group in the country, urging that  it is important to do something about the country’s uncontrolled population growth by investing in family planning before it is too late They want women to embrace   family planning  to avoid unintended pregnancy. Researchers have warned that without family planning, women risk having unplanned pregnancy. Data from the Federal Ministry of Health, show that the use of family planning commodities has helped in preventing over three million unwanted pregnancies; while at the same time averting over 19, 000 maternal deaths between 2011 and 2015. Similarly,  a 2018 report on  International Conference on Family Planning held in Kigali, Rwanda and available on the Family Planning 2020 website, showed that Nigerian women through the use of different contraceptive methods have prevented, 2,060,000 pregnancies in the year 2018 alone. The figure is higher than 2017’s figure of 1,904,000. The report however, revealed that owing to low uptake, 1,371,000 unintended pregnancies occurred in 2018. The World Population Day is an annual event, observed on July 11 every year, which seeks to raise awareness of global population issues. This year’s World Population Day calls for global attention to the unfinished business of the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development where 179 governments recognised that reproductive health and gender equality are essential for achieving sustainable development. Harping on the importance of family planning in population control,  the stakeholders said that government at all levels must  accelerate efforts to ensure that women and girls particularly, those in rural areas have access to contraceptive methods of their choice to check the high rate of unintended pregnancies. One of the stakeholders and former UNFPA’s Country Representative in Nigeria, Dr. Diene Keita, said fulfilling unmet demand for family planning  in Nigeria would avert 750,000 unintended pregnancies and reduce by one – third the estimated over 40,000 annual maternal deaths. Keita noted  that better reproductive health care including voluntary family planning could bolster economies and contribute to sustainable development by empowering women to complete their education. “Family planning, therefore, is critical to achieving Sustainable Development Goal 1, to end poverty.” “It is also key to achieving other goals such as ending hunger as well as promoting good health and gender equality”, she said. The major triggers for population increase include early marriages, high birth rates and lack of family planning access. But cultural and religious contributors are also impacting significantly. Another stakeholder, Prof. Suleiman Adeniran of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital, said family planning allows greater investment in each child that is key to slowing unsuitable population growth and its negative effects on economy, environment and development efforts. “It mitigates adverse effects of population dynamics on natural resources including food and water, increases economic growth and social stability and a better security for all, ’’ he added. The gynaecologist listed contraceptive methods to include oral contraceptive pills, injectable contraceptive, barrier methods, male and female condom, implants, intrauterine device, surgical method and vasectomy. He added that family planning is one of the cost – effective health interventions that can guarantee the economic well -being of families and communities. Family planning expert, Dr. Ejike Orji is also worried  about  Nigeria’s uncontrolled population growth. “The number of people we are producing every year is faster than our developmental rate, “And that is why Nigeria has become the No. 1 country with the highest number of poor people”, he said. A family planning user, Mrs Chika Ugwu, said that their husbands were only interested in satisfying their sexual desire at the expense of their wives’ health. She said that even where such services were provided, the health officials would insist that their husbands be present, and that the services be provided with their consent. “But our husbands will take advantage of this and refuse to go to the facility with us. “We really need government to come to our aid, provide the services and talk to our men to support us in accessing the services , ’’ she said. WAY FORWARD Charting the way forward, the  Country Director, Pathfinder International Nigeria, Dr. Farouk Jeja, urged the media to change the narrative  in some parts of the country where family  planning is not acceptable due to cultural and religious reasons. “The media should consistently  provide correct and easily understood information on the advantages of family planning, dispel misconceptions around side effects and hold government accountable to fulfill its FP2020 and other commitments made in support of family planning”,
he said. Besides increased investment in family planning services, the health experts  further called for intensified awareness campaign as regards the health and economic advantages of family planning. “Family planning programmes and policies should deliberately incorporate both men and women to facilitate spousal support. “Family planning education should be well highlighted in school curriculum even to the primary level”, they said. 