 By ADEJUWON OSUNNUYI With the spate of economic hardship amidst persistent security challenges beleaguering the country, the leader of the New Anointing Revival Assembly, Apostle General Anselm Madubuko, on Tuesday, said Nigeria, as a whole, needs serious revival, as he prayed to God to intervene. Speaking during a press conference to announce activities for the church’s annual event tagged, ‘Azusa Revival Camp Meeting’, which is slated to begin on July 22, and end July 28, 2019 at the prestigious Revival miracle cathedral, 1-7 Revival close, off Akilo Road, Ogba, Lagos, Apostle Madubuko would remain in trouble except miracles happen. According to the clergyman, the Nigerian politicians do not have any solution to the problem(s) rocking the country. Madubuko, expressing sadness over the situations Nigerians are today said, “We have never been like this as a people.” He noted, “The church in Nigeria is sick and it needs revival. We need to run back to God for serious spiritual revival. “We are bringing in the spiritual powers to confront and break the wicked powers. “Nigerians found themselves in their present predicament because they refuse to seek God first. “The enemies has put the Nigerian churches to sleep.” Speaking on the Azusa conference, which is the 17th edition, Apostle General Madubuko revealed that the programme is envisioned to birth spiritual revival across Nigeria and the nations of the world. According to him, “Azusa’ is an Indian word, nmeaning blessed miracle. It is the name of the street in Los Angeles where a notable revival took place early in the 20th century. The name is thus symbolic of revival. Alongside the Apostle General Madubuko and his amiable wife, Ambassador Pastor (Mrs) Emmy Madubuko, other gospel ministers that would be ministering at event include Pastor Ayo Oritsejafor, Reverend Sam Tukura, Apostle Hans Howard, Bishop Funbi Addo and Bishop Toddy Okafor. Pilgrims from Europe, America, and other African countries are also expected to gather for the epochal event. While the seven-day programme would have morning, afternoon and evening sessions, a concert to wrapped it up is billed for Sunday 28 July by 3pm. Gospel acts billed for the praise jamz include Frank Edwards, Chioma Jesus, Mercy Chinwo, Amb. Wole Oni, Judith Kay, Romzy, Essence, Ighosa, The Higher Dimension Choir, among other gospel artistes. “There will also be a special ministers conference on 26 July by 11am. There would be hostels available to accommodate those that want to camp in the church. “As many that have yearning for spiritual revival as well as those seeking healings, Azusa 17 is a must as it will be a time of God’s visitation,” Madubuko added. 