 By Angela Onwuzoo In a move to reposition the health insurance industry in Nigeria in achieving Universal Health Coverage, stakeholders in the health sector are seeking ways of addressing challenges affecting the operations and growth of the industry. To achieve optimal performance in the industry, leaders of Health Maintenance Organizations and healthcare providers in the country met, reviewed the challenges and resolved to work together to move health insurance forward in the interest of patients. The stakeholders, under the aegis of Health and Managed Care Association of Nigeria in collaboration with Health Care Providers Association of Nigeria, both National Health Insurance Scheme accredited, in their resolutions, urged the Federal Government to revatilise the NHIS by putting necessary measures in place that would assist the scheme in achieving its mandate in making health care available to Nigerians at an affordable cost. Speaking at a press briefing in Lagos, Chairman of HMCAN, Dr. Tunde Ladele, said HMOs and healthcare providers must work together to build processes and systems in corporate governance that follow laid down principles, concept of global best practices and bridge identified knowledge gaps in the health insurance industry. Ladele said regulators on their parts, should be reorganised to deliver their functions in line with global best practices in order to achieve a wider coverage. Additionally, to sanitise and standardise the operations of health insurance programmes for the organised private sector in Nigeria, the Chairman said HMCAN and HCPAN must synergize and agree to come up with actuarially determined benefit packages and premiums for the adoption of the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association, for its members. Also speaking, President, HCPAN, Dr. Jimmy Arigbabuwo, appealed to the state governments who have interest in providing Social Health Insurance programmes to carry the stakeholders along from the time of conceptualising the programmes for optimal performance. “We welcome the initiative of the federal government in looking at the Universal Health Coverage, using State’s Social Support Health Insurance, but the way it is being implemented, the beneficiaries have started wondering especially the educated ones that, could it be because of concomitant margin pay that made these people to begin to show interest?”, he said. The NHIS, which was set up to ensure financing of health care costs and management for Nigerians through the pooling and judicious use of financial resources to ensure cost burden sharing for patients through pre-payment mechanisms, has been enmeshed in several controversies. Few days ago, President Muhammadu Buhari finally sacked the Executive Secretary of the scheme, Prof. Usman Yusuf seven months after being recommended for dismissal. A panel set by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation had last December recommended Yusuf for dismissal for alleged fraud and other misdemeanours. The President has approved the appointment of Prof. Mohammed Sambo as the new executive secretary. 