By Juliana Uche-Okobi About 303 students drawn from 17 states in Nigeria have received $7.5 million in full or partial scholarships from 225 American universities and colleges to study in the country for the 2019-2020 academic session. This revelation was made last week in Lagos by the acting United States Consul-General, Osman Tat, during the 2019 Education USA pre-departure orientation for students who have received admission offers and scholarships to study in the US. Tat, who said the US remained a top destination for international students, added that the list of acceptances for Nigerian students for the upcoming academic year cut across many of the 50 U.S. states. “I congratulate each one of you on your tremendous success. This is a very important step in your life. I encourage you to make the most out of your time in the United States to acquire the requisite skills and knowledge needed to support Nigeria’s development,” he admonished the US – bound students. Some of the US institutions where the Nigerian students have been offered admission include Ivy League universities, liberal arts colleges, and Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). Others are Stanford University, The George Washington University, Johns Hopkins University, Boston University and Howard University, among others. As has always been the case, the pre-departure orientation was intended to prepare the students for their movement from Nigeria to the US. The event included interactive sessions on topics such as travel planning, adjusting to life in America, safety on campus, and F-1 visa rules for international students. Participants also had the opportunity to meet with other Nigerian students currently studying in the US, who offered tips on how to prepare for the US academic, social, and cultural environment. Among the departing students were 13 Education USA Opportunity Fund grantees – 10 undergraduates and three graduate students, with full scholarships — who received financial aid to cover the up-front cost of obtaining admission. Every year, the US Consulate’s EducationUSA Advising Centre, through the Opportunity Fund Programme, assists talented low-income students who are adjudged good candidates for admission into US colleges and universities, by funding their application process. Currently, reports have it that there are about 12, 693 Nigerians studying in the United
States. 