By MATTHIAS NWOGU, UMUAHIA  Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu  has held talks on strategic collaboration with AXIM BANK on the development of key projects in the state. Ikpeazu said his administration would continue to vigorously pursue strategic collaborations with institutions that would assist in the economic development of the state. In a statement, his Press Secretary, Mr. Onyebuchi Ememanka, dsid that the governor stated this at a meeting with the Managing Director, Intra African Trade Unit of AFREXIM Bank, Dr. Kanayo Awani, at the bank’s headquarters in Cairo, Egypt. He  said that the governor held discussions on Geometric Power Project and Enyimba Economic City, two major projects which, when completed, would jumpstart  the economy  of  the  state. Governor Ikpeazu,  he  said, was at the Bank to follow up on the Geometric Power Project, which the bank  is financing and has reached advanced stages following the involvement of the Bank. Geometric  power Project, which  is nearing  completion  is  positioned  to  supply  uninterrupted  power  to the  commercial  city  of  Aba  and its  environs. Ikpeazu also used the opportunity to discuss in detail with the bank chief the outlay and prospects of the Enyimba Economic City as well as infrastructure projects in the state. According to the governor, “We are not unaware of the role continental financial institutions such as the AFREXIM Bank plays in the development of the economies of African countries. We are fully aware of the key roles played by strategic collaborations between countries, federating units of countries on the one hand, and financial institutions such as yours. Our people are eager for development and our government will explore fully the opportunities available from such collaborations for the development of our state. “Abia State has great potential for growth and development, especially in the areas of SMEs. Opportunities exist for great partnerships between our state and institutions such as the AFREXIM Bank, and we look forward to working together on so many fronts.” The Managing Director of AFREXIM’s INTRA AFRICAN TRADE UNIT, Dr.  Awani, assured the governor of the readiness of the bank to partner with his administration for the development of the state. The bank is currently deeply involved in the financing of the Geometric Power Project because it believes in the potentials of the state. 