By MATTHEW DIKE A fifty-year-old man has allegedly attacked his wife and another man he suspected to be her lover in Lagos. The man identified as Olayiwola Saba, allegedly inflicted machete injuries on his wife, Busayo. He also attacked his suspected rival, Adewale Ajibike. While Busayo, 40, sustained injuries in her right hand, Ajibike was left with a machete-inflicted gash on his forehead, resulting in the victims petitioning the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the State Criminal Investigation  and Intelligence Department, Panti, Yaba, Lagos, DCP Yetunde Longe, against Olayiwola for allegedly attempting to kill them. In a petition dated June 25, 2019 and entitled, “Threat to life,” Busayo Ajibade (Saba) alleged that her hubby, Olayiwola attempted to kill her. She attached the picture of herself showing the injuries her husband allegedly inflicted on her to her petition. Busayo claimed that her relationship with her husband had gone sour since 2009, after they had been blessed with three children, including 8 – year- old female twins, Taiwo and Kehinde, and 11 -year- old boy, Oyelami. The petition read in part, “On June 15, 2019, when he came up with a cutlass to kill me, I thought he was joking until he cut me twice in my right hand, before a good Samaritan came to my rescue and whisked me away. Up till this time of my writing this petition, he had been boasting that he would kill me. He stated that nobody would checkmate him because he is a cult member. I don’t want him to eliminate me.” The woman also told our correspondent that her husband was owing her N1.2million. According to her, she lent him N400,000.00, which he borrowed for a piggery business he wanted to engage in. She said her estranged husband also took N450, 000 from her when he lied that he wanted to travel abroad. “He deceived me and I gave him the money and he did not travel at last. He squandered the whole money. He also borrowed N350, 000 from me to buy land. He was into land speculation and there was a parcel of land he told me about. He had wanted to sell the land, but couldn’t get a buyer because he would also add his commission. So, he decided that I should give him the money to buy out the land, which he could also resell and make interest.  He bought the land with my money.  He later gave me documents of the land. But he had never shown me even for once where the land is. I’ve not seen the land with my own eyes. He only gave me documents because I was very worried as my business was suffering. I needed money to finance my business,” Busayo said. In his own petition dated June 27, 2019, against Olayiwola, and made available to the deputy commissioner of police in charge of the SCIID, Panti, Yaba, Lagos, his wife’s suspected lover, Ajibike raised the alarm that the suspect should be brought to book before he would send him to an early grave. Ajibike said that Olayiwola and his friend, Ayinde Eleran, attacked him, leaving him with a serious machete injury on his forehead. The fashion designer, who resides at 36, June July Street, Suru Alaba, Lagos, however, debunked the claim by Olayiwola that he was dating Busayo. In the petition entitled, “Conspiracy / attempted murder,” Ajibike said, ”On June 15, 2019, I received a call from my landlady’s son by name Ahmed that he was in Ibadan to process his customs recruitment document, but forgot the form at home. He urged me to assist him by telling his mother. As I met the woman to tell her, one Ayinde Eleran and Olayiwola Saba confronted me that I was befriending the woman. Before the twinkle of an eye, Olayiwola Saba had brought out a cutlass and inflicted a cut on my forehead. “After that, I didn’t know anything again, but I met myself in the hospital. After I was revived, they (Olayiwola Saba and Ayinde Eleran) boasted that it would be an abomination for them to apologise for what they have done because they are cult members. I, therefore, want you to bring this menace to a halt to serve as a deterrent to others.” The suspect, Olayiwola Saba, said he had been having a running battle with his wife, Busayo, resulting in his packing out of the family home since 2010. But before violently attacking his estranged wife and Ajibike, Olayiwola had sought relief in court to dissolve his marriage with
Busayo. Remi, a friend to Busayo, wondered why the jealousy and violent attack on Busayo, whom he wanted to divorce in court this year. “Since the case is in court, he has no right to monitor her life anymore,” she said. In February this year, Olayiwola sought divorce in an Amukoko Customary Court in Lagos. In SUIT NO./AMCC/O/CL, the petitioner, Olayiwola Saba, sought relief against his wife, Busayo, for a dissolution of their 11-year-old marriage. Olayiwola, who claimed to be a farmer, listed the grounds for seeking divorce to include placing of curses by his wife “on me and members of my family. She wanted to take total submission of my children, planning to take over my company, trying to constitute nuisance in the area of my company and no rest of mind in my matrimonial home”, adding, “Therefore, no more love.” His prayers was for the court to dissolve their marriage, but grant him the custody of their children. 