By ADEJUWON OSUNNUYI  For the second year running, Chivita 100% has won the highly coveted Outstanding Juice Brand of the Year Award at the prestigious Marketing Edge Awards for Excellence, and thereby affirming its dominance in the Nigerian juice brand segment. Chivita 100% Fruit Juice was adjudged winner of the highly competitive category because of its outstanding brand equity, segment leadership, customer engagement and innovative integrated marketing communications – across traditional and digital. Made from real natural fruits with no added sugar or preservatives, Chivita 100% is a convenient, delicious, healthy and nutritious 100% fruit juice. It offers health-conscious consumers a range of refreshing and nourishing fruit choices as an addition for a complete breakfast diet. According to organizers of the Awards, the selection of Chivita 100% was as a result of painstaking industry reviews and assessment of the patriotic contributions of the brand to the growth, development and continuing evolution of the juice segment in the country. “The brand has demonstrated robust commitment to excellence as well as the enthronement and sustenance of global best practices in the industry. Chivita 100% has also shown an uncommon innovativeness for market leadership, and this is why our jury decided that Chivita 100% was deserving of the recognition and celebration,” the organizers stated. Speaking after receiving the award, the Marketing Director, CHI Limited, Mr. Probal Bhattacharya, commended the organizers of the Awards for recognizing Chivita 100%’s strides as a market leader in the juice segment. He said, “We would continue to ensure innovative excellence, and grow consumer confidence which has seen Chivita 100% win the Outstanding Juice Brand of the Year Award for consecutive years. For many consumers, Chivita 100% has become a preferred lifestyle brand of choice for its great health, nutrition and refreshment value as part of a complete breakfast requirement.” This award joins a growing list of recognition awards for Chi Limited which includes most recently, Chivita 100% as the most Outstanding Juice Brand of the Year in the 2018 Marketing Edge Awards, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria’s 50th Annual General Meeting and Awards 2018 for Best Kept Industrial Premises, The Guardian Manufacturing Excellence Award 2017 for Beverage Manufacturing Company of the Year, Chivita Active Vegetable Fruit Nectar and Hollandia Choco Malt Drink category wins at the 2017 Marketing World Awards, “Most Innovative FMCG Company” at the Top 50 Brands Nigeria Award, as well as the Businessday Top 25 Most Innovative Companies and Institutions in Nigeria Awards 2017. Chivita 100% comes in four variants; Real Orange, Real Apple, Real Pineapple and Red Grape, and available in 1Ltr. pack size. Driven by a passion and commitment to excellence, CHI Limited is one of the most admired companies in the domain of Food & Beverages in Nigeria. While it prides itself in offering products that are themselves benchmarks in their respective categories of Juice, Dairy based Beverages & Snacks, each CHI offering is admired for its highest quality, nutrition & health standards. Today, CHI Limited is the undisputed market leader in juices, fruit drinks, yogurts and value added dairy beverages in Nigeria. The company attained this status by consistently delivering innovative products that have become household names in Nigeria. In the fruit juice category, mega brands like CHIVITA 100%, CHIVITA Active, CHI Exotic, Happy Hour by CHIVITA, CHIVITA Ice Tea and Capri-Sonne occupy leading positions in their respective segments. CHI Limited also takes great pride in its range of dairy products, such as Hollandia Yoghurt, Hollandia Evaporated Milk, Hollandia UHT Milk, Hollandia ChocoMalt to name a few and its range of snack foods like CHI Superbite Premium Beef Sausage Roll, Beefie Beef Roll, Beefie Meat Pie and CHI Classic
Cake. 