By SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA. Ogun State government has expressed its readiness to take over the strategic federal roads to bolter economic activities as the main industrial hub of Nigeria. The State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun said he had formally sought permission of the federal government to dualize three major federal roads linking the state and Lagos under the public, private sector partnership arrangement. The roads are: Ikorodu – Ogijo – Shagamu road, Epe – Ijebu – Ode road and Lagos – Ota – Abeokua road. In a statement made available by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, Abiodun said that he met with the World Bank team led by its country director, Rachid Benmessaoud in Abuja on Wednesday to bring on board global best practices on the ease of doing business from the World Bank in order to better the lives of the people of his state. The Governor, who expressed sadne over the trauma being experienced by commuters on the Lagos- Abeokuta road wherever it rains, especially the Iyana-Ilogbo road, which portholes cause traffic congestion on the road, noted that his government was ready to repair the road because of its importance to the people of the state. Abiodun said that only N1bn was allocated for the road in this year’s federal government budget, lamenting that the road from Iyana-Ilogbo had been under construction and still need a whopping sum of N26bn to complete the road. He said,” The Lagos-Abeokuta road is a sorry sight when it rains and our people need to commute to and from Lagos everyday because we are to Lagos what New Jersey is to New York.” “People, who commute through Iyana Ilogbo, will tell you of the nightmare they encounter everyday because of potholes which cause endless gridlock. This is a road that has been under construction for a long time and still needs about N26bn before completion.” “Only N1bn was in this year’s federal budget for that same road. So, as a responsible government, which is closer to the people, we have to do something”, “Lagos has completed it’s own end of the Epe-Ijebu Ode road. What we need to make it a total package is about 14.4km. So, we are taking it over because the welfare of our people matters. It will become an alternative route for motorists going to the Eastern part of the country”, he added. 