 By ADEJUWON OSUNNUYI Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Sunday sent the names of former Secretary to the State Government, during the Akinwunmi Ambode’s tenure, Mr. Tunji Bello and 24 others to the Lagos State House of Assembly for ratification as commissioners and Special Advisers. A release signed by the governor’s Deputy Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile stated that the list also include the names of the Editor of The Nation, Mr Gbenga Omotosho, and a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Moyo Onigbanjo. The statement reads: “In fulfilment of his election promise to accelerate his administration’s development agenda, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Sunday, transmitted a list of Commissioner-designates to the House of Assembly for ratification. The list contained twenty five names, who are to assume duty as Commissioners and Special Advisers upon ratification by the legislature. Akosile said Sanwo-Olu carefully picked the nominees based on their cognate experience in their respective professions. The list, he said, comprised names of technocrats and politicians, who understand the challenges of the state, noting that the painstaking and laborious selection process was aimed at constituting the best team that will serve Lagos in line with the agenda of his administration vision of delivering a city-state that will rank among the top most liveable cities in the world. The statement continued: “We took our time to pick the best hands for the tough job Lagosians have elected us to do. The nominees for the twenty five Commissioner and Special Adviser positions include women and men who have made their mark and at the zenith of their professional callings.’’ Governor Sanwo-Olu’ media aide stated further that the current list is first batch, saying that consultation was going on with regard to the complete number of the cabinet members. He further disclosed that the new cabinet would be unique, because of its diversity. Quoting Governor Sanwo-Olu, he said Lagos would continue to take the lead in innovation, gender-balance and youth inclusion in the administration of the State. “We have a blend of youth who are under 40 among nominees for Commissioners and Special Advisers. Women too are well represented in the list. We believe Lagos deserves the best and we cannot give the people anything less than that,” the statement said. Breaking down the list of nominees, there are 17 men and eight women that will be sworn in as members of the State Executive Council. Also, in keeping his promise of millennial’s inclusion, Governor Sanwo-Olu included youths who are in their early and mid-thirties in the list of nominees. The State House of Assembly is expected to carry out a screening of the nominees to set the machinery of governance in full swing. Below are names of the nominees: 1. Mr. Rabiu Olowo Onaolapo
2. Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo
3. Prof. Akin Abayomi
4. Dr. Idris Salako
5. Mr. Tunji Bello
6. Mr. Gbenga Omotoso
7. Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka
8. Mrs. Bolaji Dada
9. Mr. Lere Odusote
10. Dr. Frederic Oladeinde
11. Mr. Gbolahan Lawal
12. Ms. Adekemi Ajayi
13. Mr. Femi George
14. Dr. Wale Ahmed
15. Mr. Moyo Onigbanjo (SAN)
16. Mr. Hakeem Fahm
17. Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle
18. Engr. Aramide Adeyoye
19. Mr. Segun Dawodu
20. Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf
21. Mr. Sam Egube
22. Ms Ruth Bisola Olusanya
23. Princess Aderemi Adebowale
24. Mr. Tunbosun Alake
25. Mr. Afolabi Ayantayo SIGNED
GBOYEGA AKOSILE
DEPUTY CHIEF PRESS SECRETARY
JULY 14, 2019 