 By ADEJUWON OSUNNUYI In line with its commitment to the development of Nigeria, especially its objective of ensuring that those who are visually impaired in the society receive aid, association of Lions Clubs International, District 404B2 Nigeria, has reiterated its decision to complete the Lions Ophthalmology Centre at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital Complex, Ile-Ife. The new District Governor of Lions Club District 404B-2 Nigeria, Lion Wesley Kafidiya, made this known in Lagos during a press conference to announce activities lined up for the new Lions year 2019/2020, commencing on July 1, 2019. Outlining his three main service programmes for the year, Kadifiya, said “the District major focus this year will be on the Lions Ophthalmology Center at Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital Complex, Ile-Ife.” “This year, our overall mission shall be: Promotion of a formidable District through dynamic leadership, operational inclusiveness and teamwork, and optimal service delivery with enhanced public visibility.” According to him, “While the completion of the physical structure is receiving appropriate attention, we have commenced ground work towards the furnishing and equipping the facility as a Tertiary/Reference Center for all forms of ophthalmology services under Lions Clubs International (LCI) Sight First Program. On global service framework, the District Governor said Lions new service framework would focus on five service areas, namely, vision, hunger, the environment, pediatric cancer and diabetes. “It gives Lions and Leos new ways to meet emerging humanitarian needs in their communities and around the world. “As a club, we have supported the IDPs and just last year, the club raised $10,000 through grants to supply food, other items to flood victims. We will still focus on our core five areas of concern: vision, hunger, the environment, paediatric cancer and diabetes, but that does not mean that we would not attend to other areas of concern in our immediate environment,” Kafidiya noted. Speaking further, he said his administration would also pursue other identified community need projects and activities that would ensure community satisfaction, ownership and sustainability. Lion Wesley Kafidiya was elected the District Governor, at the National Convention held in Abeokuta, Ogun State in May 2019 to steer the ship of District 404B-2 of the Multiple District 404 Nigeria for the Lions year, which commenced on 1st July 2019.  