By SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA The police in Ogun have arrested a 27-year-old bricklayer, Abiodun Durojaiye, and his accomplice, Toheeb Ganiyu, who specialised in robbing the people of Sagamu area of Ogun State of their mobile phones. Both suspects, who said that they made between N10,000 and N20,000 from the phones they stole, were said to have attacked one Oyebisi Adewale while he was coming from an Oro festival at Eleja in the Sagamu area of the state. They were among the 14 suspects, who were paraded by the Police Public Relations Officers in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, at the Police Headquarters, Eleweran, whose crimes ranged from armed robbery, motorcycle snatching and cultism, among others. While confessing to their crime, Durojaiye said that he committed the offence because he could not get contract as a bricklayer. The suspect said that he and his partner, Ganiyu, went for an Oro festival with the intention of stealing the phones of the participants, but on their way to the festival, they met their victim, Adewale, who they attacked and dispossessed of his phones. Durojaiye explained that they were later caught by the operatives of the Vigilance Service of Ogun State, now also known as So-Safe, who later handed them over to the police. He explained further that he made between N10,000 and N20,000 profit after selling the phones snatched from their victims, begging for forgiveness and vowing never to steal again if pardoned. Durojaiye said, “I am a bricklayer and I went to steal phones because I needed to survive because there are no jobs in the country. We were caught by the Vigilance group operatives when we went to steal phones at Eleja area of Sagamu and they later handed us over to the police. “We made between N15,000 and N20,000 on phones we steal and we usually used scissors to scare our victims before dispossessing  them of their phones and we would run away immediately.” Ganiyu, however, confessed that he and Durojaiye had been collaborating in stealing people’s phones in Sagamu. “Durojaiye and I are friends. We both work together to steal phones from people. We regret what we did and we plead for mercy; if we are caught again, they should kill us,” he pleaded. 