Troops of the 1 Division of the Nigerian Army in Kaduna have neutralised five bandits and arrested four others in two separate operations in Chikun and Igabi Local Government Areas of the state. The Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, 1 Division Nigerian Army, Col. Ezindu Idimah, disclosed this in a press statement issued in Kaduna on Sunday. Idimah said troops of the ‘Operation Harbin Kunama III’ dislodged a bandits’ camp in Dagu village of Igabi Local Government Area on July 24, following a tip-off. The statement reads, “During the operation, two bandits were neutralised and one was apprehended. Others evidently escaped with gunshot wounds,” the Army statement
read. “Troops also rescued two kidnapped victims, Mallam Yakubu Hamidu and Alhaji Isa Saidu from the bandits’ den around Makarfi Farm junction in Igabi LGA on July 25.
“Two Motorcycles belonging to the criminals were also destroyed during an exchange of fire.” The Army spokesman noted that the residents of Dagu village had commended the military for destroying the hideouts of the bandit, who had been terrorising villages in the area. Idimah disclosed that the second operation was conducted on July 25 by troops on Operation THUNDER STRIKE, around Kubuso , Kuso and Kakumi general area in Chikun Local Government Area. “Following the operation, three bandits were neutralised, three were arrested and two kidnapped victims were also freed,” he added and listed items recovered from the bandits to include, one AK47 riffle, a single barrel rifle, one dane gun and 28 rounds of special ammunition. Also recovered were two motorcycles, one camouflage uniform, two ATM cards, a Techno phone, one Airtel sim card and empty cases of 5 x 7.62mm special ammunition. The Army spokesman appealed to the general public to report anyone seen with gunshot wounds to the nearest security post for investigation. The General Officer Commanding, 1 Division, Nigerian Army, Maj-Gen Faruk Yahaya, commended the troops for their efforts and charged them not to relent until the bandits were effectively annihilated. 