By AYO ESAN, Abuja Former Deputy National Chairman and member, Board of Trustees of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Olabode George, has said that Nigerian democracy is being over-stretched because of its flawed electoral process. George also said that the Independent National Electoral Commission, as presently constituted, must be disbanded to enable the country to make progress in her democratic journey. Speaking on the state of the nation, George said, “The electoral process is very flawed, distorted, mangled, fractured, dishonest, primitive, savaged by deliberate human intrusions. Where the wish and the will of the people prevail, the crucial essence of democracy is thus fulfilled. But, unfortunately we are now straying. As a result of this overt flaws in the electoral process as represented by INEC, we are all basically disenfranchised as none can guarantee that the votes cast are sacrosanct. Everything is tampered with in the desperation to seize victory at any cost. “Virtually all candidates are invariably aggrieved after election. And thus they troop to the judiciary for arbitration. Normally, the judiciary has a valid role to dispense justice, where there is dispute.  But in a situation where the judiciary is gradually taking over the role of the electoral body is, indeed, a cause for concern. A lot is greatly amiss, when the judiciary has practically become the deciding agency on who becomes a governor, who becomes a senator, who becomes a member of House of Representatives. Definitely something is wrong. “Look at India, 800 million people voted and in two weeks results were announced, no judicial tribunals; same in most developed countries in the world. Why, after 59 years of independence, we are still in the Stone Age. If the Banking Industry in this country can process our data instantly, why not the INEC. In this warped reality, democracy is diminished. The mandate of the people is flung into the dump site. And the danger crawls closer.” George argued that to restore order and sanity, INEC must be disbanded in its entirety, adding, “It is presently compromised, partisan, wrapped in self-consuming incompetence. It must be retooled, revamped, overhauled to align with the profiles of such institutions as witnessed across the world, where the full complement of the electronic system has long replaced the stone-age system of manual collation, where electoral officers jump from tricycles to motorcycles to various moving contraptions and planes, physically carrying results to the Abuja Headquarters. What a shame! I cry for my beloved country in the 21st Century. “Nigeria’s democracy is equally battered by the constant insidious encroachments of herdsmen into our farms, provoking tensions and murderous violence. The upsurge of bandits and kidnappers are the latest evils threatening the stability of our nation. The newly proposed Ruga settlements for Fulani herdsmen across the nation should be given more thoughtful appraisal, more tempering analysis lest we are thrown into destabilising unknown. “The government must be very pro-active, redefine its tools of engagement, refresh its policies, be bold and non-partisan to ensure that the outlaws are promptly neutralised and hurried out of town. Our nation is abundant with huge human resources and natural resources. We must apply our advantages to bring peace and lasting harmony to our lands. But we must be fair, we must be equitable. We must respect each other’s differences. We must be honest and true to each other, regardless of tribe or tongue. May God bless our nation. And may God lead our leaders aright.” 