… settles April salary  before leaving office.  The Ogun state governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun on Wednesday said that he would pay his workers outstanding deductions and April salaries before leaving the office in May. Amosun said that a total sum of N20.2B would be used to pay the April workers salaries and out of which an outstanding deductions of 10.8B would also be used to pay the entire workforce. Amosun spoke at the 2019 May Day Celebration Rally at the M.K.O Abiola Stadium, Abeokuta, with the theme” Another 100 years of Struggle for Jobs, Dignity and Social Justice in Nigeria. The governor who promised to  complete all projects that involved the workers before leaving the office, said  that by tomorrow (Thursday) their accounts would be credited with a total amount N20.2 billion for April salary and deductions. Amosun, while enjoining all  the workers to continue to do their best and endeavour to make quality service delivery in the state, insisted that he would not owe any workers salary before leaving the office in May 29. He said “Let me say here and now that tomorrow they will credit our account with 10.8billion representing all the deductions that we owe the workers of  Ogun state and our April salary there will be nothing like net it will be the full salarys that we will pay tomorrow.” “So tomorrow the full account of our workers in Ogunstate will be credited with a total amount of 20.2billions. We are only paying you because we have all run round to find these money to pay you.” “For tomorrow I will pick the microphone and say to the glory of God that since i have been the governor I am not owing any staff of Ogun state any money in term of their salaries I am not owing because by tomorrow I will have paid all the outstanding of their deductions.” “At this point let me say that our administration will not abandon any of our outgoing project especially those   that concerns the welfare and development of the  Ogun state work force.” “Our dear Ogun workers you will recollect that during our last meeting with some of our national labour leaders  in earlier this years in March I did promised that I will not owe any deduction before the end of my tenure in office.” “I therefore charge you particularly workers in the state to continue to make quality service delivery paramount in all that we do and call on the entire labour of  our dear state to continue to put in their best and keep the flag flying we cannot afford to drop the board at any time.”  he added. 