Edo State Government has assured justice for a 12-year-old girl allegedly defiled by a community leader. In furtherance of the state’s stance against child molesters in the state, the state government has assured justice for a 12-year-oldchild allegedly defiled by a community leader in Oregbeni Quarters, Benin City. In a statement, the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development assured that justice would be done in the matter, as the state government restated its committment to protecting children. The minor said to have been allegedly defiled by the Odionwere of Jatto Street in Oregbeni Quarters, appeared at the Evbouriaria Magistrate Court during the trial of the defendant, Goddey Jatto, a 34-year-old man. While being led in evidence by the prosecutor, Inspector Thomas Ojo, the nominal complainant (victim) told the court that she was accosted, taken to the bush behind a fish-pond in the area and defiled by Jatto on January 22, 2019. “While I was waiting for my mother at the shop, I decided to go to a neighbour to help me call my mother on phone. Before I could get to the neighbour’s house, I changed my mind and turned back because I did not want to upset my mother. As I was returning to the shop, Jatto called me to help him take a book to his wife and I refused because I did not want my mother to get to the shop and not meet me there.” She continued, “He insisted and as I walked close to him, he held my hand, closed my mouth with his other hand and dragged me to the back of his house by the fish-pond. “He removed my pant, brought out his baby (penis) and forced it inside my baby (vagina). It was so painful and when he finished, he gave me N200 and turned my back, trying to do the same thing again. I bent-down, picked my pant from the floor and ran,” she said. The child (victim) told the court that immediately she ran back to the shop, she met her mother and narrated her ordeal. “My mother cried, fell and couldn’t move. She informed the Police; they took us to the police station the next day,” she said. On her part, the mother of the victim said the defendant was initially released at Oregbeni Police Station and the IPO pressured her to settle but she refused. She was later contacted by officials of the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development and assured that justice would prevail on the matter, as government was keen on protecting juveniles from indecent assault. Defense counsel’s bail application was vehemently opposed by the prosecution to avoid potential distraction that could scuttle the case. The case was adjourned till May 2, 2019 for accelerated hearing. 