 Three days after a welder, Olaiya Ibraheem, was allegedly killed by a mob for stealing iron rods belonging to Redeemer’s University, Ede in Osun State, the Police have commenced investigation on the incident. Ibraheem, said to be a son to the Amir of Zumuratu Mumini in Ede, Imam Olaiya, was reported to have killed by a mob said to have included members of Oodua Peoples’ Congress, led by one Wakili Adesina alias Doki. Confirming the death of Ibraheem, the Public Relations Officer, Osun State Police Command, Folasade Odoro, said the victim was killed by a mob and that investigation was still ongoing. “The deceased was killed by a mob. We are on the matter. Investigation is still on going. People should remain peaceful,” she said. Meanwhile, the suspected killers of Ibraheem were alleged to have also attacked a commercial bus driver (name not ascertained) who conveyed the victim to the land of Redeemer’s University, Ede to cart away some iron rods. The bus driver was beaten to stupor as he is still receiving medical attention in an undisclosed hospital in the town. A resident of Ede, who identified himself as Asunmo Afeez, said “the University has traced where he was putting the stolen iron rods and they put him under surveillance. “We learnt that he took a commercial bus to go and pack the stolen iron rods on Sunday morning when the OPC members who are on unofficial surveillance for Redeemer’s University led by ‘Doki’ shot him and beat the driver to stupor. Afeez disclosed that the OPC members are unofficial security of the institution, who have been working for them since 2014 when the land tussle between the University and the community started. Ibraheem was said to have been rushed to Oke-Iresi Police Division in the Redeemer’s University’s security bus before the policemen asked that he should be taken to the hospital. Before Ibraheem could get to State Hospital in Ede, he had given up the ghost. When contacted, the Head, Directorate of Public Affairs, Redeemer’s University, Ede, Mr. Adetunji Adeleye confirmed the death of Ibraheem and said he did not die within the university premises. Adeleye said hoodlums killed Ibraheem on Sunday at Ededimeji area, an extension of the school’s land. He denied that the school’s security vehicle was used to convey the deceased to the hospital even though our correspondent sighted a video of how Ibraheem was placed on the school’s security vehicle. Adeleye said there had been some security breaches before the ugly development happened saying that the institution operates non violence policy. 