To commemorate this year’s Children’s Day today, the United Nations Children’s Fund, has launched a child rights campaign to create awareness about the rights of children in Nigeria. Unveiling the campaign titled,” For every child, every right”, UNICEF’s new Country Representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins, expressed concern that despite many innovations over the years to boost child rights , children in Nigeria were still not accessing health, nutrition, education and other rights to the extent that they must. “Sadly, it is the most disadvantaged children who are suffering the greatest challenge in having their rights fulfilled”, Hawkins who resumed work today said. This year’s Children’s Day falls on the 30th anniversary of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is being commemorated this year around the world. As part of the celebrations, UNICEF also launched a “Passport to Your Rights”, a copy of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in child-friendly language. The new Country Representative said  the CRC ‘passport’ would  also be available in Hausa, Igbo, Yoruba and Pidgin languages to help ensure access by millions of Nigerians. He said: “Thirty years ago, something incredible happened. World leaders came together in a moment of unity for the world’s children. They made a promise to every child to protect and fulfill their rights, by adopting the UN’s Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Convention established childhood as a period that is separate from adulthood – a time in which children should grow, learn, play, develop and flourish. “We want to see every Nigerian child have that kind of a childhood.” He noted that the Convention  became the most widely-ratified human rights treaty in history, with Nigeria ratifying it in 1991, adding that it had  helped to transform children’s lives; inspiring legislative changes to protect children and enabling them to participate actively in their societies. Hawkins  further said; “Today, more children than ever live healthy lives, are learning in school and have a voice in their communities. But much more needs to be done as children’s rights continue to be unfulfilled and threatened daily around the world and in Nigeria. There are still too many children being left behind, and too many childhoods cut short by violence, conflict, poverty and inequality. “On this Nigerian Children’s Day, we must look ahead to the future of childhood in this country, and re-commit to urgent, specific actions to protect the rights of every child – now, and in future generations.” “Child rights will only be fully realized when every government and every citizen is aware of and upholds children’s rights, and every child can claim those rights. It is for this reason that we are launching a campaign ‘For every child, every right’ and will work closely with the government to ensure that all Nigerians are aware of the rights that all children have. This includes in particular children themselves”, he added. 