  The sit-at-home order given by the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra in all Southeast and South south states on Thursday, May 30 recorded high level of compliance, especially in Aba, Abia state. The order by the IPOB, according to the group, was to honour fallen heroes of the Biafra side of the Nigeria civil war who have not been given befitting burial since the end of the war in January 1970. It was almost a total lockdown as most people stayed at home leaving the ever busy Aba streets empty and markets unpatronized. When The Point visited the major Aba motor park and other loading bays, some of the commercial vehicle drivers who defiled the order had few passengers to carry and had to discharge them or wait till the tide changed. This was even as the commercial tricyclists (KEKE), the major means of internal transportation in the commercial city, were visibly non-existent. Some Akwa Ibom state-bound drivers, who spoke on the situation said that they had come early with the belief that they would have been able to move passengers to their state before any enforcement could start within the commercial city, but they were disappointed that very few people came out. “We have no option than to go back to our homes and observe the order,” one of them said. Most of the school visited did not open for studies and those that opened had scanty attendance. At the major markets including, Ariaria International market, Cemetry, Ahia Ohu and the Ekeoha Shopping Centre, business recorded very low activities, though their gates were open for business. Bemoaning the situation, Kalu Otisi, a trader in Ariaria, said he came out for business only to see that every part of the market was empty, although the market was open for business. He said that the sit-at-home order by IPOB was one too many as he suggested that they (IPOB) should find other strategies to advance their cause. “You can imagine how much money that has been lost today in Aba in business transactions. It would not be less than N2 billion,” he said . “Think of Onitsha, Enugu, Owerri and other cities in the south East. They are punishing and impoverishing the Igbo, whom they claim to be fighting for.” Otisi, who could not hide his frustrations on the IPOB strategies said, “this is self-inflicted economic sabotage on the Igbo. “How does this affect the federal government and how many federal institutions are here in the south east that could be adversely affected by the order?, he added. Speaking with The Point, a veteran of the Biafran war, Chief Chima Okeke, who said he was not aware of the IPOB sit-at-home order today, but he had come to Aba for some business transactions, only to find almost every where empty, said he did not know what they mean, although he understands that victims of the war should be recognized, “but not in this way”. According to him, the IPOB is yet to find a method to actualize Biafra. He noted that their foul language, insults on the Igbo Intelligentsia , the Ohaneze leadership, election boycotts in the southeast and the many sit-at-home orders would not lead them anywhere, but only frustrations. Warning against exposing Igbo youths to danger, he said that Biafra is in the spirit of every Igbo man and that it would come when it would come and not by struggle, revolution or war. For Joseph Nkoro, an Aba resident, the sit-at-home to remember fallen heroes of the war is proper, as the dead deserved the respect. However, he added that that has been taken care of by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the apex Igbo socio cultural organization in conjunction with South East governors in ceremonies that are held every month of May, until a few years back, when it was discontinued. He said that he rated the compliance 85 per cent as everywhere is like a war zone with most shops locked, but also added that could not be seen as a mark of success as most people decided to stay at home to avoid risking their lives, goods, confrontation with miscreants or law enforcement agencies and not necessarily in support of IPOB and their order. Though the commercial city was calm with no violent incidents recorded at the time of writing this report, police patrol vehicles were seen moving round possibly to arrest any one seen disturbing, even as no member of IPOB was seen trying to obstruct those who ventured out to do business. 