 The Supreme Court has ruled that the All Progressive Congress did not have any valid candidate in the governorship, state House of Assembly and the National Assembly elections conducted in Zamfara State on February 23 and March 11, 2019. The apex court, in a unanimous judgment that was delivered by a five-man panel of Justices led by the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, on Friday morning, held that the ruling party did not conduct valid primary elections to nominate candidates for any elective position in the state. Declaring the first runners-up as the winners, the Apex court maintained that the Sokoto Division of the Court of Appeal was right when it held that the APC did not filed any eligible candidate in the 2019 general election in Zamfara State. Consequently, the apex court, in its lead verdict that was prepared and delivered by Justice Paul Galinje, dismissed an appeal the APC lodged to challenge the appellate court’s judgement. Besides, Justice Galinje, awarded a cost of N10million against the APC. “I find that the lower court was right in holding that there where no primary elections in Zamfara State. “The appeal had no merit and it should be dismissed. It is accordingly dismissed. ” The party that has no candidate cannot be declared winner of the election. Therefore, all votes that are credited to such party is deemed as wasted voted. “Candidates of parties with highest number of valid votes cast with the required spread stands elected in Zamfara”, the Supreme Court held. By this unanimous judgement, all candidates of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, Nigeria’s main opposition party are winners of the governorship, National Assembly, and State House of Assembly. PDP came a distant second in all the elections, which saw the APC winning all the seats and even producing a governor-elect. Though PDP was not a party to the suit before the Supreme Court, it would be recalled that it was the internal wrangling within APC over primary elections that got to the court, but in a surprising judgement, the Apex court declared the party that came second the winners. APC candidates, including the outgoing governor of the Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, who was elected to the Senate, had won most of the offices contested for in the 2019 elections with the PDP candidates, placing first runners-up in the polls.  