 Angela Onwuzoo A renowned pharmacist and President, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, has decried the high level of out-of- pocket payment for healthcare services in Nigeria, urging pharmacists and other key players in the health sector to address the problem. Citing the current economic situation in the country which he described as volatile, Ohuabunwa challenged pharmacists to find innovative solution to the problem by ensuring that their services are need and technology driven. Ohuabunwa, a past Chairman, Nigerian Economic Summit Group, noted that the economic situation had affected the resources at the disposal of many Nigerians which in turn affected their purchasing power for goods and services, including payment for healthcare services. Speaking at a press briefing in Lagos on the forthcoming 92nd Annual National Conference of the PSN, tagged “Crocodile City 2019”, Ohuabunwa said pharmacists could reduce the burden of cost of treatment for healthcare on patients by promoting wellness and ensuring that their businesses are Information and Communication Technology driven in order to remain in business and also make profit in a volatile economy as Nigeria’s. He said the conference is slated for November 4-9 and will take place at Kaduna Trade Fair Centre, Zaria Road, Kaduna State with the theme, “Navigating The Winds of Change in Professional Practice in a Volatile Economy.” Commenting on the importance of the conference in addressing key challenges in the pharmaceutical sector, he said, “Even a common man in the street who does not understand macroeconomics knows that resources and means of production are dwindling and consequently pressing on every facet of our life; not even sparing healthcare. This is why we framed our discussion for this conference on pharmaco-economics because economic volatility is the new norm; so we must begin to change the way we do things.” “It will also be used as a peer review to close up gaps in pharmacy practice between Nigeria and other countries with better health indices and between states for knowledge transfer from one institution to another”, he stated. Billed to give the keynote address is Prof Patrick Utomi, an expert in political economy and management. Other personalities will speak on contemporary issues affecting the sector. The PSN boss added that pharmacists occupy a very strategic position in primary healthcare delivery, being the most accessible and qualified healthcare professionals within 200 metres in our towns and cites. 