 The Director-General of the National Automotive Design and Development Council, NADDC, Jelani Aliyu (MFR), has said the NADDC will continue to guide and give young talented Nigerians the opportunities to develop the country’s automotive sector. According to the director general, the NADDC apart from giving talented Nigerians the opportunities to showcase their abilities in the automotive sector, will also open up exciting possibilities and opportunities for Nigerian youths to contribute towards the actualization of innovative transportation solutions necessary for a successful Nigerian future. Speaking in Abuja on Monday during the Launch of the Automotive Design Challenge for Nigerian youths between the ages of 18 to 40, the NADDC director general said the initiative was borne out of his desire to make Nigeria the automotive hub on the African continent, using the richness of talents and skills that abounds in the country. Aliyu said the automotive design challenge will be an annual event, and will open up opportunities for Nigerian youths to showcase their creative abilities and talents. The entries for the challenge, NowAfricaMedia recalls, opened from October 21 to November 21, 2019, and are in two categories; namely, the design of Nigeria Applicable Intra-City Mini Taxi and Cost-Effective Mini Tractor. Pointing out that the Council will soon begin the implementation of the national automotive industry development bill, (NAIDP); Aliyu said NADDC was also working alongside global automakers in order to create more skills and jobs opening for Nigerians that are interested in going into automotive design and development industry. He disclosed that NADDC has structured the National Automotive Industrial Development Plan in full support of local automotive manufacturing, and is continuously and actively working with relevant stakeholders to provide a vehicle financing scheme so Nigerians won’t have to put down 100% cash when buying new cars. Also speaking at the event, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, assured the NADDC of providing necessary legal support and framework for all the council’s initiatives. Malami said the auto challenge will go a long way towards providing the necessary opportunities and skill that will create jobs and make Nigeria the epicenter of automotive design and development in Africa. On his part, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, represented by Mr. John E. Aboje, enjoined NADDC to facilitate increased level of local contents in vehicles made in Nigeria, pointing out the ouncil was well on track towards achieving its set goals. Assuring Nigerians that NADDC will bring down the cost of purchasing brand new vehicles in Nigeria, the Board Chairman of NADDC, Senator Osita Izunaso, said the NADDC’s board was collaborating closely with the relevant stakeholders towards bringing down the cost of new vehicles made in Nigeria to an affordable level. The launch of the automotive design challenge was attended by representatives of relevant institutions and stakeholders in the automotive industry in Nigeria, while entries for the contest will be through online platforms: Website www.naddcdesignchallenge.com, Facebook @ naddc design challenge, twitter @ naddcchallenge and instagram @ naddcdesignchallenge. 