…warns against tagging him a politician  A prominent Nigerian, Prince (Dr.) Feyisayo Soyewo, has urged all indigenes of Ago-Iwoye in Ijebu North Local Government Area of Ogun State to be more committed in their service to the town and her people. Soyewo, who is the Olori Omo Oba and Asiwaju Onigbagbo of Ago-Iwoye, also called for unity amongst all the indigenes of the town to enable them to move the town forward. The holder of the national honour of Member of Federal Republic also cleared the air about his rumoured membership of a political party, saying he’s neither a politician nor stalwart of any of the parties. He stated these while speaking in his capacity as the Chairman of the 2019 Ago-Iwoye Day held last Saturday at the Ago-Iwoye City Hall. Soyewo stressed that the indigenes of Ago-Iwoye should guard against anything that could divide them, adding that history records whatever action taken by any individual in the present time for future reference and judgment. He added that an occasion such as the Ago-Iwoye Day could be an opportunity for the people to reflect internally on their lives. Soyewo said, “I, therefore, like to call on all of us, sons and daughters of Ago-Iwoye, to remain committed in our services to this ancient town and her people and allow nothing to divide us. What we do today, becomes history tomorrow. “Ubuntu is a nice story from Africa that I like to share with you. An Anthropologist proposed a game to the African tribe kids. He placed a basket of sweets near a tree and made the children stand 100 metres away. Then announced that whoever reaches first would get all the sweets in the basket. When he said ‘ready, go.’ “Do you know what these children did? They all held each other’s hands, ran together towards the tree, divided the sweets equally among themselves, ate the sweets and enjoyed it. When the Anthropologist asked them why they did so, they answered “Ubuntu,” which meant- How can one be happy when others are sad. “A strong message for all generations. Let all of us imbibe this attitude and spread happiness wherever we go. Let us be our brother’s keeper. Let us do away with self-centred and selfish ideas and projects.” He noted that the essence of life is to live for others, adding, “It gives you joy, it gives you health, it gives you rest of mind and more importantly, it earns you multiple rewards from the Almighty God.” Soyewo also warned against the spread of the rumour about his involvement in partisan politics. He said he’s neither a politician nor a member of any of the existing political parties in the country. According to him, “Please, allow me to seize this opportunity to make it abundantly clear that I am not a politician and not a member of any political party. I have heard many funny stories and wicked insinuations in recent times about me in this respect. The wicked falsehood about my political status should, therefore, stop.” Soyewo congratulated the Ebumawe of Ago-Iwoye, Oba Abdulrasaq Adesina Adenugba, the Chairman of ACDC, Mr. Tosin Daniel and members of his team. He also prayed for long life for the monarch on the throne to enable him to celebrate greater and more delightful moments in Ago-Iwoye 