  Francis Kadiri In his resolve in developing the Nigerian local content, President Mohammadu Buhari has been advised to also redirect his focus on the ceramics industry development as it is another key to economic diversification. A fellow of the Society of Nigerian Artists, who is also President, Dajo Pottery International, Master-Potter Lavi O’Bem Yakubu, gave the advice in an interview with our correspondent. Yakubu, who said there is no country more endowed than Nigeria by way of raw materials, expressed concerns that in 2015 alone, Nigeria spent over $600 million on importation of ceramics. Expressing his desire for speedy recovery of the ceramics sector he noted that the faster we change this situation, the better for this country. The globally recognised Master-Potter and awardee of the National Productivity Order of Merit Award, explained that the Ladi Kwali Pottery Centre, which has been in comatose for over 40 years, was a flourishing hub for art and commercial pottery production. He lamented that previous governments had allowed such a place of economic importance remain in comatose for so long. While recalling that the Centre was established in 1957 by Michael Cardew, a British citizen during the colonial administration, he commended the World Bank-supported Minerals Sector Support for Economic Diversification (MinDiver) project for its efforts in reviving the Nigerian pottery sector, adding that “socioeconomic challenges of the country will be significantly addressed if the ceramics sector is revitalized.” While noting that if the country’s ceramics industry is revived, the entire solid mineral sector will be developed, he added that no less than 30 solid minerals are used in pottery making, a development, he said would lead to creation of several sustainable jobs. The multiple award-winning Master-Potter, who recently bagged the National Local Raw Materials Content Award said, “As off-takers of over 30 process solid mineral types used in pottery production, Nigeria will channel the minerals to production of ceramic products instead of exporting them in raw form.” Speaking further, he said: “We can produce bricks, floor tiles, roof tiles, electrical insulators, sanitary wares, brake shoes, spark plugs and more, as some of these products can be exported. Ceramic products can be exported and it will earn revenue for the country, he explained. While saying that clay is very instrumental in the pharmaceutical industry, he noted, “Kaolin mixture is 100 percent clay as in the petrochemical industry, the lubricant for drills is bentonite – which is clay.” According to the Dajo Pottery International CEO, “If the Centre is revived and expanded, it would help to actuate the ongoing economic diversification through the non-oil sector. 