 Adeleke Adesanya Bimbo Odukoya Foundation, a non-governmental organization, has described as critical and invaluable education of the girl child to any nation. The foundation, which spoke against the backdrop of the International Day of Girl-Child recently celebrated, said education of the female children was vital to development of any country. Commemorating the event at its annual Girls’ Empowered Conference held at Fountain of Life Church, Lagos, the foundation reiterated that the programme was aimed at promoting Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) amongst female students in secondary schools. The event had in attendance 1,280 female student representatives from at least 21 secondary schools in Lagos state, as well as 217 teachers, sponsors and partners of the foundation. Delivering the keynote speech, CEO of Michael Ewemalor Foundation, Mr. Michael Ekwemalor, in his words, encouraged the teenage girls to believe in their ability, urging them to aspire to the desired professional height they could attain. Giving credence to some women such as the Chairman, First Bank Group, Mrs. Ibukun Awosika; Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, amongst others who have not just distinguished themselves in their careers but have become renowned personalities following their education acquisition and hard work, Ekwemalor urged the students to strive to attain and exceed in their respective feats. He described female presence in any society as salt to earth, adding that they remain trailblazers. “Girls are important in any society and their education is critical to the development of that nation,” he said. Sensitizing the students on the effects of drug abuse, Mr. Olufemi Silas, a drug abuse expert and a campaigner for social justice under the name STAMPOUT, expressed dissatisfaction at the rate the menace is ravaging the society. Defining drug abuse as a harmful use of psychoactive substance, Silas classified drugs as depressant, stimulant or hallucinogens. He counselled that even if drugs would be taken for medical reasons, it must be done according to doctor’s prescription. Director of Unite Cisco Network, Mrs. Toyin Olutayo, who spoke on importance of technology and how the girl child can plug into the 4th revolution global trend of development, opined that education should focus on entrepreneurship. Olutayo noted that there are spaces in the technological sector such as cyber security experts, email technology, application developments to still be filled and the girls can assume dominate these spaces. In her remarks, Coordinator Bimbo Odukoya Foundation Mrs. Aderonke Oyelakin, stated that a girl child must have a safe, healthy and caring environment to grow, such that would stimulate her to learn and excel. According to her, this would help in instilling confidence in them hence helping them to channel their strength in chasing their dreams and achieving their goals in life. “Let us celebrate the laudable achievements of our daughters to make them unstoppable” she added. The foundation project officer, Mr. Ese Akpovona said “we should stop gender stereotypes. Girls can be more if given the opportunity to thrive and express themselves in different fields of work and this is what STEM will do by preparing them to advance science and technology oriented courses.” The organisers further expressed appreciation in the sponsors to include Stanbic IBTC, Michael Ekwemalor Foundation, Eventful, Tastee, MTN Foundation, GTBank, Haddassah Foods, Xchangehub, amongst others. 