 . We won’t give up search for his replacement in 2020 poll, vows EPM . Nine Owan West APC ward chairmen disown him …say ‘gov won’t get our endorsement for second term’ . Obaseki, party chair lack powers to suspend me-Edo APC secretary . Our actions in order, insists APC chairman Osemwengie Ben Ogbemudia, Benin Forces within the ruling All Progressives Congress in Edo State loyal to the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, at the weekend, intensified their opposition to the second term ambition of Governor Godwin Obaseki, vowing to do everything to ensure he does not emerge their standard bearer in the 2020 governorship election in the state. At the forefront of the opposition to Obaseki’s return for a second term in the Edo Government House is the Edo Peoples Movement and nine out of the 11 ward chairmen in Owan West Local Government Area of the state. The EPM, through one of its chieftains, Hon. Gideon Obhakhan, who is also a former commissioner for education in the Oshiomhole administration, told The Point that since the leaders of the APC in the state had rejected Obaseki, his alleged desperation for a second term would amount to nothing. This is just as nine ward chairmen in Owan West Local Government Area of the state said they’ve taken a stand against Obaseki’s second term in office, vowing that until the governor heeded the directives of the APC National Working Committee and that of the National Assembly regarding how to resolve the crisis rocking the party in the state, they and their kinsmen would have nothing to do with his re-election in 2020. Also, a group, Coalition for Good Governance and Economic Justice in Africa, kicked against the actions taken by the Obaseki administration in the state in recent times, particularly last week’s alleged attack on Oshiomhole in his Benin residence by suspected loyalists of the governor. WE’RE DETERMINED TO OUST OBASEKI IN 2020- EPM EPM chieftain, Obhakhan, told The Point that the governor’s recent actions against Oshiomhole’s loyalists in the state would not dissuade or intimidate the EPM from achieving its objective of finding an alternative governorship candidate for the ruling APC in Edo in the 2020 governorship poll. “It is now obvious that Mr. Obaseki is not the man that he pretended to be in 2016, when he was voted massively by Edo people to carry on with the good works initiated by his predecessor. The man we now know, is a man desperate to install himself as a second term governor, against all the odds. He wants to be his own man by any means, and he has the support of some over-the-counter advisers currently hovering around him for some bounty harvest from the avoidable APC crisis in Edo State,” the former commissioner said. Obhakhan added that though Obaseki’s quest to come back as governor of the state for a second tenure may be within his own rights as a citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, this might no longer be possible considering his “massive rejection” by the leaders of the APC in Edo State. He said that the governor’s desperation manifesting in his recent actions and those of his close allies, suggested a sudden realisation of the difficult task of getting a second term ticket in a free and fair electioneering process. The EPM chieftain said, “Obaseki has, therefore, decided to change his tactic from that of the usual easy-going technocrat of the Afrinvest fame to the brutal Governor Obaseki, who doesn’t mind if the constitution is turned on its head in his quest to crush any element of opposition. Over the last couple of months, several desperate moves by Obaseki and his team have left many asking questions as regards what happened to decency, the rule of law and respect for the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “He started by sending what has now become known as a kangaroo proclamation letter to the clerk of the Edo State House of Assembly and ended up in the process inaugurating nine out of the twenty-four members-elect by 9:30pm on the 17th of June 2019. This action, which clearly negates the provisions of the Nigerian constitution, has been condemned in various quarters, including the National Working Committee of the APC and the National Assembly. The governor has, however, remained adamant and has refused to do the right thing, four months after the illegal nocturnal inauguration. “Having apparently succeeded in running an illegal house for four months, Mr. Obaseki appears to have shifted focus to indiscriminate suspension of local government council chairmen, who are allegedly not committed to the actualisation of his second term ambition. As at last count, four out of the 18 local council chairmen have been suspended, with rumours of some more penciled down for same treatment in the coming days. For those who have not been suspended, strict instructions have been given to them to ensure that members of Edo People’s Movement are not allowed to organise meetings within their respective local government areas. Threats of suspension have been issued to the chairmen, who cannot prevent EPM members from holding meetings within their local governments. This again is a direct attack on the Nigerian Constitution, which guarantees freedom of association for all citizens. “The most recent action that shows the desperation of a man who is losing the battle, was the attack by sponsored hoodlums on the Benin City residence of the National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. This uncivilised action has been condemned by many, including the national publicity secretary of the APC. The path that Obaseki has chosen is a dangerous one, which does not augur well for the good people of Edo State. If these illegalities are allowed to fester, Edo State may degenerate into a completely lawless state. This is, therefore, an urgent call on all relevant authorities to call the governor to order and admonish him to do the right thing now. The consequences of today’s inaction may be too grave to handle tomorrow. A stitch in time saves nine.” APC CAN’T RISK LOSING EDO IN 2020, SAY EX-ATTORNEY GENERAL, FORMER REPS MINORITY LEADER EPM Convener and former attorney general and commissioner for justice in the state, Mr. Henry Idahagbon, had exclusively told The Point in Benin that his group, which was an offshoot of the APC in the state, had the mandate to look for another governorship candidate that would fly the flag of the ruling party in next year’s governorship election in Edo. Idahagbon had said that the APC in Edo had the conviction that it would lose the governorship of the state if it fielded incumbent Governor Obaseki for a second term in the 2020 gubernatorial election in the state. He stressed that the APC in the state had made up its mind on Obaseki and that there was no going back on the decision to have a replacement for him in next year’s governorship poll. According to him, “If he wants to kill us, let him go ahead. They can come and kill us, but we remain committed to the two ideas of EPM, which are to resuscitate the party in the state and to restore it to its winning ways. Our mandate is to shop for a credible alternative to Godwin Obaseki for the 2020 governorship election, because the party will lose if we field Governor Obaseki.” Idahagbon had further accused Governor Obaseki of creating conflict in the state chapter of the APC. Speaking in the same vein, EPM Co- convener, Rt. Hon Samson Osagie, who is a former speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly and ex-minority leader of the House of Representatives, told The Point that the group was determined and committed to strengthening the party structure in the state and also shopping for another candidate, aside from the incumbent governor, to fly the flag of the APC in next year’s governorship poll in the state. Another chieftain of the EPM in Edo, who is also the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, had recently deplored the administration of Governor Obaseki for allegedly abandoning critical projects initiated by the immediate past governor of the state, Oshiomhole. Agba also threw his weight behind the leadership and members of the EPM in the state in its bid to upstage the governor, saying he was proud to be a member of a group on a mission to rescue Edo from the hands of Obaseki. He had said that the current administration in the state had, by its action against ensuring continuity in the implementation of the projects of its predecessor, disappointed the people of the state. WE WON’T ENDORSE OBASEKI FOR SECOND TERM, VOWS APC WARD CHAIRMEN Also reiterating their opposition to Obaseki’s second term, nine APC ward chairmen in Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State vowed at the weekend not to have anything to do with the governor’s second term bid. APC Chairman for Ward 8, Hon. Friday Valentine Okeile, who spoke on behalf of his colleagues, told The Point that no amount of intimidation or harassment would make them to cave in to pressure on them to endorse Obaseki, who he said had so far failed to recognise party supremacy. Okeile also claimed that based on their stand against Obaseki’s endorsement for a second term, they had been summoned for a meeting at the Government House in Benin, but which they had resolved not to attend such a meeting. He said, “First and foremost, no amount of threat, intimidation or harassment by Governor Godwin Obaseki that we in Owan West will endorse him for a second term. First, our Edo State House of Assembly member-elect should be sworn-in as directed by the APC NWC and the National Assembly, after that, we can start talking. “As we speak to you now, we are showing you our certificates of return as ward chairmen, no fake person here. So, out of eleven ward chairmen, nine of us are saying no to Godwin Obaseki’s endorsement.” OBASEKI REPRESSIVE, DICTATORIAL- GROUP The CGGEJA on its part said that the Edo state governor should be called to order, accusing him of being repressive and dictatorial in most of his recent actions against even members of his ruling APC. The group particularly condemned the alleged attack on Oshiomhole by Obaseki’s supporters in Benin last week and charged the governor to restrain himself and his loyalists. According to the group’s Director of Communication, Mr. Osheku Afoyan Isaac, “The Coalition for Good Governance and Economic Justice in Africa wishes to express its strong disproval and condemnation of the planned, but failed attack on the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, by armed thugs suspected to be linked with the Edo State Government and other state actors reported to be aggrieved over the chairman’s political choice and activities. “This unacceptable event is a continuous indication of the gradual erasure of human rights in Edo State since the emergence of Governor Godwin Obaseki, who has himself utilised repressive tactics and watched idly as certain leading political figures threaten violence on those with different political opinions or views. “Even more worrying is the fact that the police in the state have abandoned its neutrality and displayed complicity. This was on display yet again in the incident involving the National Chairman as the Commissioner of Police in Edo State remarked that ‘no attack took place’ even though there are multiple witnesses and eye-witness accounts confirming the presence of the thugs at the residence of Oshiomhole, and their violent conduct, as well as readiness to unleash mayhem, but for the absence of their prime target. “The freedom of speech and association are basic rights in a democracy; hence, we condemn in totality any attempt by government officials, no matter how highly placed, to single out individuals for punishment, using state agencies for their political views, association and activities.The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress and other members of the state reserve the right to free movement around the state, and beyond, without unnecessary harassment or fear for personal safety. “We demand that Governor Godwin Obaseki immediately restrain himself and his aides, many of whom have recklessly issued out menacing threats to other citizens, and return to the rule of law, which establishes the right of the people to disagree with him and assemble peacefully. He must immediately tender an unreserved apology to the National Chairman and other members of his residence for the traumatic incident, which took place under his watch and, as reported in some quarters, his instruction. The governor must also address a live broadcast reassuring the people of their safety irrespective of what their political activities are.” The coalition also urged the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, to caution the Edo State Commissioner of Police, Dan Mallam Muhammed, over his utterances on the recent alleged attack on Oshiomhole in Benin. It accused the state police commissioner of dabbling in politics and taking side in the face-off between the governor and his estranged godfather. “We also call on the Inspector General of Police to issue a warning to DanMallam Muhammed, the Edo State Commissioner of Police, to resist the pressure by certain state actors asking him to compromise his duties by dabbling into politics and taking biased positions. His primary duty remains the unconditional protection of the lives and properties of all law-abiding Edo Citizens without bias for political association. Provided he lacks the integrity to abide by this and the strength of will to carry out the pledge he made to the nation when he took the uniform, then he is advised to resign his position or seek an immediate transfer”, the coalition stated. MY SUSPENSION IS ILLEGAL- APC STATE SECRETARY Meanwhile, the suspended State Secretary of the APC in Edo, Mr. Lawrence Okah, has insisted that he remained the substantive official in charge of the party’s secretariat in the state. Okah, said to be an Oshiomhole loyalist, told The Point that his suspension as the party’s state secretary was illegal as Governor Obaseki and the state’s APC Chairman, Anslem Ojezua, lacked the powers to take such an action against him. “My purported suspension as Secretary of APC in Edo State is illegal. Governor Godwin Obaseki and Anslem Ojezua lack the powers to suspend me. All they have done so far regarding the party is illegal and cannot stand. I remain the secretary of the party while Comrade Adams Oshiomhole remains the leader of the party in Edo State,” he said. STATE SECRETARY’S SUSPENSION IN ORDER- EDO APC CHAIRMAN But the Edo APC chairman insisted that the suspension of the state secretary of the party was in order. He said the secretary’s suspension was the decision of the state working committee of the party. “We have issued a statement on the suspension of the secretary, and that is what I stand on. It’s the decision of state working committee. So, I have no further statement on that. Thank you,” Ojezua said. 