  VICTOR IZEKOR The Romans would say “Ora et lobora” or “Orate et laborate” meaning work and pray. The two words “work” and “pray” equal “success”. In Biblical parlance, “Faith” without work or action means nothing. No matter how prayerful one is, the result is zero if this is not backed by work or action. I hope or think this little Biblical knowledge of mine is not out of place, misplaced or out of context. I am a believer in the efficacy of prayers, but such must be linked with something or an issue at a given time or moment. No one prays in vacuum. As a believer in the supremacy of God, the Almighty, I subscribe without equivocation, that in all things we do, more so in moments or times of challenges, we need God’s protection, guidance as well as blessings. With God, we can do all things and without Him, we cannot do nothing, though this assertion might sound nothing or no sense to some holding contrary belief or opinion. When General Tukur Buratai, the Chief of Army Staff, made a clarion call for spiritual help in the ongoing war against insurgency, he made sense. Commenting on this in its editorial of October 8, 2019, the Blue Print writes in part, “Not a few Nigerians seemed to have been jolted when the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, said that terrorism and terrorist groups could not be eliminated alone by the military unless religious bodies and organisations in the country come to the “forefront of this spiritual battle.” “The Army Chief noted that the focus must be religious groups interfacing on addressing the ideologies, which fuelled the Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists. “Buratai made the remark penultimate Monday in Abuja during a spiritual warfare seminar at the Nigerian Army Resource Centre with the theme, “Countering insurgency and violent extremism in Nigeria through spiritual warfare.” “The Army Chief, who was represented by the Chief of Administration, Maj. Gen. Sani Yusuf, urged Islamic and Christian clerics across the Army formations to join the fight against terrorism, and reorient the people against negative ideologies. “Buratai said, “It is easier to defeat Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists than their ideology because, while we degrade the terrorists and their havens, the narrative of the ideology grows the group. “Therefore, communities, families, and groups should join in the fight and narratives to reject and prevent the ideologies of the terrorists and extremist groups. Religious bodies and organisations in particular who interface regularly with the grassroots should be at the forefront of this spiritual battle and fashion out ways of stepping up their roles. “The fight against terrorism, Boko Haram and ISWAP, as well as other security threats, cannot be left to the troops in the battle field alone. Yes, we will do our duties, but the need to tackle groups through spiritual warfare and re-orientating the followers against the ideology is also a necessity. It is a well-known fact that terrorism and terrorist groups cannot be totally eliminated by mainly military actions. “This means focusing our efforts on the underlying narratives through ideologies that are employed by these terrorists to lure innocent citizens to their fold. The need to defeat the ideologies of Boko Haram and ISWAP is based on the awareness that it is the ideologies that enhance their resources and help to recruit new fighters to their fold and as such; kill their ideology and the terrorist movement withers and dies.” “The Army chief added that religious leaders and clerics who regularly interface with members of the society must “fashion out ways of stepping up (their) roles, remembering that the fight against terrorism is a collective responsibility.” “But the Executive Chairman, Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership, Mr Debo Adeniran, flayed Buratai for “recommending a fetish approach to prosecuting a physical war.” Adeniran said Buratai’s statement was an admission that he no longer had anything to offer and should be replaced by the resident. “Also, Adebayo Oladeji, the Special Assistant (Media and Communications) to the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Samson Ayokunle, urged Buhari to sack the army chief. He said CAN has been consistently calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to overhaul the security system and replace the service chiefs. “However, Ustaz Christian Okonkwo, the Director of Islamic Centre, Afikpo, Ebonyi state, an affiliate of the International Islamic Relief Organisation based in Saudi Arabia, said Buratai was right. “The former Director of Administration, Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, said, “People get indoctrinated by the preaching and teaching of a set of religion or the other or by their attachment to their particular tribe or race. So, if we have to change the narrative, it just has to come from the same source to which these people have been indoctrinated because they have a very serious sentiment to that religion or ethnic group.” “The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Abubakar Sa’ad lll-led Jam’atu Nasril Islam also backed Buratai”, concluded Blue Print. However, in the prevailing circumstance Nigeria is currently going through with regards to insurgency, how does one convince the Boko Haram members to lay down their arms and embrace peace, when the concerned, especially the ideologically committed ones, believe strongly that they are right in their belief as opposed to the opponents (the Nigerian state), who share contrary view. To complicate matters, the Boko Haram sect backed its belief with arms. In this very situation, there are two armed combatants with conflicting ideologies. Commenting on the insurgency, a former governor of Borno State, Kashim Shettima pointed out, “The current state of insecurity and deplorable state of affairs is not unconnected with attempt to impose the opinion of a small group on a larger society, a situation which clearly abridges the freedom to freely hold and express one’s opinion, which is fundamental and inalienable in any given society. Once the fundamental right the other person to hold opinion is abridged, there can never be peace and harmony.” This is unfortunately the dilemma the Nigerian state has found itself and is trying to wriggle out from – hence the war against insurgency. The Federal Government of Nigeria has for the past decade been fighting terrorism championed by the Boko Haram sect striving to destabilise the nation. Towards achieving this, the coercive forces of the nation led by military, is in the forefront against the Boko Haram terror war. It can be safely said that the act of Boko Haram sect is a rebellion against the Nigeria state and this must be subdued. In this war of insurgency, the military must not only take the lead but must be seen to do so. In short, the military must not only dictate the pace of the war but in full control of the entire situation before anything else. For example the Gaji Galtimari Presidential Committee on the Security Challenges in the Northeast in its observations and recommendations said in part: “The committee observed a lack of ‘attempts by government and security services to understand the ideology and motives’ of the group by engaging them in dialogue and advised ‘urgent need to constructively engage and dialogue with the leadership of the sect’ from a position of strength, ‘by allowing the security forces to dominate the environment.’ The committee further recommended that the proposed dialogue should be on the condition of the sect’s renunciation of violence and surrendering of arms.” In short, Boko Haram sect members must be effectively tamed or subdued before other things can follow. After all, Chairman Mao believes that “power comes from the barrel of the gun.” So long as the Boko Haram sect is still contesting with the Nigerian state or authorities on the balance of power or muscle-flexing in the on-going war of terror, the more obdurate the sect would be. It is either carrot or stick option or both. The unity of the nation is not negotiable and must be preserved, no matter the cost. Thereafter, talks on re-orientation, de-radicalisation, rehabilitation, reconstruction and resettlement, which are themselves the effects or fallout of the insurgency, would make sense. To eat with the devil, one must use a longer spoon. In the words of an observer, “The call for prayers to defeat the Boko Haram insurgency and other forms of insecurity is stretching negative religiosity exceedingly far. Prayers alone don’t defeat armed enemies, bullets are needed.” First thing first. I remember my peripatetic teacher who would say, “If persuasion fails, apply force. For he who thinks is clever, has everything to lose.”  Victor Izekor is a journalist and public affairs analyst. He writes from Maiduguri at victorizekor@gmail.com 