  SEGUN AYINDE, ABEOKUTA Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has urged Nigerians seeking greener pastures in other countries to stay back and salvage the country from her current travails in order to build a better nation. Abiodun, who spoke at the 59th Independence Day anniversary ceremony held at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abeokuta, lamented that the country is losing her best brains because her citizens are migrating to other countries for greener pastures. According to the governor, Nigerians were so desperate to leave their country to develop other countries with their brains and resources, lamenting that their migration to other countries would only worsen the situation of the country and make it difficult for the country to develop and be a better nation. Abiodun admonished the youths to be more patriotic and contribute their quotas to the development of the country instead of migrating to other countries. The governor, who said that the governments at all levels and Nigerians still have a lot of work to do to developed the country, urged Nigerians to remain in unity despite their ethnic differences in order to make the country a proud nation. He said; “At 59, our dear country still has much work to do. We must remain patriotic. We must put our nation first. It is worrisome that our people are migrating to other countries for greener pastures.” “While some of our current national challenge may make it tempting to seek fortunes outside our shores, we must also realise that these countries were once in our position with different challenges. And indeed, more often than not, the greener pasture is a mirage”, “We must not run away but stay and solve our problems together. I, therefore use this medium to encourage our people to come together as one and solve our challenges for the greater good of our Nation. If we do this, our great Nation will be better.” “We must realise that we are Nigerians before any other affiliation because of this, we should have the love of this country, whatever responsibilities that we are entrusted with, we should discharge them with fervour and commitment. It is worrisome that our people are migrating to other countries for greener pastures.” 